Method
Cook the rice as instructed on the packaging.
While the rice cooks, prep the vegetables. I like a mix of diced, ribbon, julienne to create a mix of textures.
When the veg is ready, add the oil to a frying pan or wok and let it get hot before throwing in the veg. Carrots and cabbage take a little longer to cook so I put them in first and then the rest of the veg goes in a couple of minutes later.
Keep giving the veg a stir and turning it over so it cooks evenly and doesn’t stick. It should take 5 – 10 mins to cook through.
Add the miso, five spice and soy sauce and stir through. Finally, add the rice. Stir regularly so it doesn’t burn. Once the rice is heated through, you are good to go.
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 350ºF
Heat the oil in a large, deep pan on medium heat. Cook the Meatless Farm mince (or similar) until lightly browned.
Add the refried beans, chopped tomatoes, tomato puree, chopped bell peppers, onion and the taco seasoning mix to the pot. Simmer and reduce for 10 – 12 minutes.
While the mince mixture is simmering, arrange the tortilla chips in a shallow casserole dish.
Next spoon the hot mince mixture over the chips.
Sprinkle the shredded cheese on top and transfer to the preheated oven.
Bake the nachos for 20 minutes, or until the cheese has melted and is lightly browned.
Serve the nachos hot from the oven along with a cashew sour cream and guacamole, as desired.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200c
Put the hazelnuts in the oven until the skins have darkened. Not all of them will go dark so just roast them until most of them have darkened
Cool the nuts
Rub them between your hands to remove most of the skin
Grind the nuts using the chopper attachment of a hand blender or a good blender
Add the cacao, hemp powder and agave and mix well
Chill in the fridge for at least 30 minutes
Take a spoonful of the mixture in your hand and press flat
Put an almond in the centre and fold the chocolate mix around it
Roll between your hands to make it round
One you have done this with all the mixture put the remaining cacao in a bowl
Put each ball in the bowl and swish around so the ball is completely covered in cacao
Chill in the fridge for 30 minutes.
Preparation
Pre heat the oven to 160°C
Cut the radishes in half and place in a baking dish, drizzle with the oil and roast for about 20minutes.
Spread the houmous onto a serving plate.
Remove from the oven and season with salt.
Spoon on top of the beetroot and horseradish houmous
Credit: @natalie.naturally
Preparation
Serves 9
You will need an 8inch/23cm square baking tin for this recipe
Method
Preheat the oven to 180c and line the baking tin with paper.
Chop the dates into small pieces and then peel and core the apples and cut into 2cm chunks.
Sift the flour into a large mixing bowl. Make a well in the centre and pour in the oil, dairy free milk and egg replacer and beat together with a wooden spoon until you have a smooth and glossy batter.
Add the sugar, dates and apple pieces and fold into the mixture until combined. Spoon the mixture into the lined baking tin and level the top with the back of a spoon. Bake in the oven for 45-50 minutes until golden and cooked through.
Remove from the oven and either serve hot with dairy free custard, ice cream or cream. Alternatively, lift the bake out using the baking paper as a lever and leave to cool completely on a wire rack. While the tray bake is cooling make up the icing.
Place the icing sugar into a mixing bowl, add the water and stir together until you have a smooth icing of dropping consistency. Once the tray bake has cooled completely, drizzle over the icing before cutting into squares and serving.
Preparation
Makes 2 individual 8″ pizzas
Equipment
Food processor with dough blade
Pizza stone or tray
Measuring cups
Measuring spoons
Frying pan
Method
Add all of the flours, yeast*, salt and chipotle mora to the food processor with the dough blade and turn on.
*I only had dried active yeast to hand, so added it to the ingredients above, (ignoring the actual instructions on the container) with full success!
Pour the water in a steady trickle until you’ve used it all and the dough becomes a ball.
Take the dough out of the processor, lightly flour your surface and set the timer for 10 mins. Knead and stretch the dough the whole time – if your arms start to ache, just image the amazing workout you’re giving them without stepping inside a gym!
Once the timer goes off, shape into a ball, put into a deep bowl that’s had a light sprinkling of flour on the bottom, cover with cling film and leave to rest at room temperature for 10 minutes.
Once rested, take it out of the bowl and knead again for 10 seconds – this helps to develop the flavour and the gluten.
Divide into 2 equally sized, smooth balls of dough and put into a deep baking dish, lightly sprinkled with flour. Make sure the dish is big enough for them to spread up to twice their size because as the gluten relaxes, they will spread to some degree.
* Top Tip *
I’ve made this base numerous times and sometimes the dough spreads a lot, other times it hardly spreads at all. Don’t worry, it’s always tasted great either way!
Leave to rest at room temperature overnight, or if you’re in a massive hurry, at least eight hours! I don’t leave mine in a very warm place like the airing cupboard as I found it can dry out and form a ‘skin’ on the outside.
* Top Tip *
The resting time for the dough is ideally 24 hours, but 48 hours is maximum.
Put the normal blade back into your food processor and add in the tomatoes, onion, garlic and ancho poblano, pulse for 10-20 seconds to break them up into small chunks, and pour into your frying pan.
* Top Tip *
You can choose how chunky or smooth to have the sauce when pulsing in the processor. Personally I prefer it chunky as it almost becomes one of the delicious pizza toppings.
Add the water, balsamic and simmer on a medium heat for 12-15 mins to let the flavours intensify, while stirring occasionally. It’s ready when the excess liquid has been absorbed but it’s still moist; don’t let it dry out and stick to the pan.
* Top Tip *
The sauce flavours will develop the longer you leave it, so why not make it a couple of days in advance and keep in the fridge? It does however, also tastes great if you make it on the day.
Turn the oven on to the highest setting to heat up your pizza stone if you have one, otherwise 220c if you’re using a pizza tray.
* Top Tip *
For pizza stones, it’s always the hotter the better, so I usually pre-heat mine for an hour.
Lightly flour your surface, roll out the dough, add sauce and your favourite tasty toppings. Put into the oven for approx. 8 mins on the pizza stone. I haven’t cooked them on a pizza tray before, but as it won’t have the intense heat of the stone, I’d suggest 10-12 mins (keep an eye on it to make sure it doesn’t overcook on top).
* Serving Suggestion *
These chilli pizzas are a spicy alternative to your usual takeaway version – the base has a delicious hot and smokey bite to it, yet this is balanced perfectly by the sweet flavours of the tomato sauce. Throw a pizza party and impress your friends with your cooking skills, or snuggle up on the sofa with your loved one and enjoy all to yourselves!
I honestly don’t miss cheese on pizza once I throw on a mix of veggies, Dee’s vegan sausage and lots of hot, sweet roquito peppers – what’s on your list of ultimate pizza toppings?
Method
Add the gluten free oats, water and your chosen vegan milk to a pan.
Cook over a medium heat, until warm, add the cacao butter drops and the pinch of salt.
Once the porridge nears your desired consistency, add the dark chocolate and cashew butter (if using) and stir for one minute or two.
Remove from the heat and stir in the pea protein. If it is too thick add in an extra splash of your chosen milk.
Transfer to a bowl and add the chopped hazelnuts and raspberries or a topping of your choice.
Preparation
Serves:  20
Preparation time: 15 minutes, plus 15 minutes chilling
Cooking time: 15 minutes
Method
Heat the oven to 170c and lightly grease a mini muffin tin.
Make the pastry by sifting the flour into the bowl of a food processor and adding the soya spread. Blend until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs. Alternatively, mix together in a bowl using your fingertips. Transfer the mixture to a separate bowl and stir in the agave nectar/maple syrup and a small amount of water at a time until a smooth dough comes together. Wrap it in cling film and leave in the fridge for 15 minutes, whilst you prepare the filling.
Make an almond Frangipane by creaming the dairy-free spread and agave nectar/maple syrup together, then adding the gluten-free flour and ground almonds, mixing until well combined.
Once the dough has chilled, roll it out between two sheets of cling film to about 1/4cm thickness. Use a cookie cutter or upside down glass to cut out pastry shells to fit into the mini muffin tin.
Start filling the shells with bits of the Nākd Bakewell Tart bars, by rolling them into small discs to fill the bottom of the shell, coming up a third of the way.
Spoon the Frangipane mixture on top and flatten with your finger to create a smooth top. Decorate with the flaked almonds and brush the tops with a little dairy-free milk.
Bake for 15 minutes, turning half way to ensure an even bake. Leave to cool and enjoy!
Preparation
Wipe clean your mushrooms and chop
Wash your tomato and chop in half
Heat your oven according to the instructions on your hash brown packet
Warm your grill to medium heat for the sausages
Method
Place your hash browns on a baking tray and put into the oven
Cook your sausages according to the instructions
Heat your oil or water in a frying pan over a medium heat and add your mushrooms. Stir slightly for 5 minutes or until golden brown
Heat the beans for around 3 minutes in a pan
Place tomato cut-side down in the pan and cook without moving for 2 minutes. Gently turn over and cook for a further 2-3 minutes until tender but still holding its shape.
Add bread to the toaster
Once all the ingredients are cooked, serve and enjoy straight away with a good squeeze of tomato ketchup
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan breakfast recipes.
Preparation
*Homemade almond or cashew milk is ideal because of its creamy consistency and ability to minimize the chalky undertaste of the tofu.
Method
Press the tofu to remove as much moisture as possible and then crumble into a food processor.
Remove the metal lid from the jar of coconut oil and place the jar in a microwave. Heat just until the solid oil liquefies, about 30 seconds to 1 minute (this will depend upon the solidity of the coconut oil). Alternately, place the jar in about an inch of simmering water and melt the oil in the same manner. Measure 3 tablespoons and add to the food processor with the remaining ingredients. Process the contents until very smooth.
Transfer the mixture to a container with a lid. Cover and refrigerate for a minimum of 6 hours to allow the flavors to blend and the cheese to firm. If desired, transfer the cheese to a decorative container and allow the cheese to soften for about 15 minutes at room temperature before serving. Gournay should be thick, yet spreadable. If the cheese is dry and crumbly, stir in small amounts of non-dairy milk until the desired consistency is achieved.
Method
Mix your protein powder, cocoa and chia seeds.
Add brown rice syrup, mix, add coconut oil, mix and then slowly add tahini or nut butter.
Combine well together, create balls and roll them in your favourite topping.
Keep them in the fridge and pop in your mouth whenever you need something sweet or a little pick-me-up.
Method
Preheat oven to 180 C, 160 C fan, Gas mark 4.
Heat oil in a pan and fry onion until soft but not coloured. Add pepper and fry for further 2-3 minutes.
Stir in the mixed beans and chopped tomatoes, adding chilli flakes if liked. Heat through and then reduce heat to low whilst making the dairy free cheese sauce.
Place Flora, flour and soya milk in a medium saucepan. Stirring continuously over a moderate heat, bring to the boil and cook for 2-3 minutes until thickened, smooth and glossy. Stir in 100g dairy free cheddar cheese until melted and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Spoon about a quarter of the tomato sauce over the base of a lasagne dish and arrange a single layer of flour tortillas over the top. Spoon a quarter of the dairy-free cheese sauce over the tortillas then repeat the layers finishing with a layer of cheese sauce. Cover the top with the remaining cheese.
Bake in preheated oven for 30-35 minutes until bubbling and golden.
Did you like this dish? Check out more budget vegan meal ideas.
Method
This is really quick, first job is to put your toast on.
While that is going on squash the flesh of the avocado in a small bowl using a fork.  You don’t want this to be too smooth, a bit of texture is more satisfying.
Mix the lemon juice into the avocado to stop it going brown.
As soon as the toast is ready give it a quick drizzle of olive oil and then spread over the avocado.
Lastly, sprinkle with the Nanami Togarash or chilli flakes, and serve with fresh tomatoes and basil
Preparation
1. Boil a kettle. Rinse the brown rice and place in a saucepan with 400ml boiling water and a pinch of sea salt. Simmer for 20-25 minutes, then drain.
2. Finely chop the red chilli (remove the seeds for less heat) and finely slice the spring onions. Trim the pak choi and slice in half lengthways.
3. Drain the chickpeas, place in a bowl and mash with a potato masher (or the back of a fork) until all the chickpeas are crushed. Stir in the red Thai curry paste, chickpea flour and spring onions. Season with sea salt. Form the mix into 6 burgers.
4. To make a sweet chilli sauce; heat a small saucepan on a gentle heat and add the maple syrup, chopped red chilli and the juice from the lime. Simmer for 3-5 mins until the sauce begins to thicken to a syrupy consistency. Remove from the heat and set aside.
5. Heat a frying pan with 1 tbsp oil on a medium heat and cook the chickpea burgers for 3 mins each side until turning golden. Remove from the pan and keep warm.
6. Heat the same frying pan with 1 tsp oil on a medium-high heat and cook the pak choi for 2 mins each side.
7. Place the chickpea burgers on two warm plates alongside the brown rice and pak choi. Drizzle over the sweet chilli sauce.
(Serves 2)
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
To prepare the butternut, begin by peeling with a sharp knife. I find the easiest way to do this is to first slice off the ends, followed by cutting it in half across the middle. You can now slice the skin off from top to bottom on each half. Once peeled, cut each half lengthways through the middle and scoop the seeds and stringy bits from the bottom half. Now slice each segment thinly, so you have lots of half crescent ‘pasta’ sheets.
Lay the butternut slices on an oven tray and drizzle over the olive oil and maple syrup. Chop the sage leaves into 1cm wide ribbons and sprinkle these on with some black pepper. Cook in the oven for 25 minutes.
While the butternut slices are cooking, prepare the tomato sauce. Finely chop the red onion, garlic and chilli and chop the mushrooms into quarters. Heat the olive oil on a medium heat in a large pan and add the spices: cooking these first releases the flavours. Add the onion, garlic, chilli and mushrooms and cook for about 10 minutes (or when slightly browned and soft).
Chop the tomatoes into small chunks and add these to the pan with the pepper/tomato paste, red wine and vinegar. Simmer for 30-40 minutes, or until reduced. It should be thick, but still loose. Add the black pepper towards the end of cooking.
While the tomato sauce is reducing you can make the white sauce. Heat the olive oil on a medium heat in a saucepan and add the spices and garlic. Keep an eye on the garlic – you want it to brown lightly but not burn. Once the garlic has begun to colour stir in the flour – much like making a roux for a béchamel sauce. Stir for a minute and then add the milk to create a sauce, continuing to stir. Next, add the tofu and mash it into the sauce using the back of the spoon. You can now stir in the remaining ingredients and leave to simmer for 10 minutes. Again, it should be thick but loose.
Finally, wilt the spinach by putting it in a pan on a low heat. Give it a stir and drain the water- this only takes about 5 minutes.
Now for the assembly! Layer the ingredients in a deep dish or tin. I put mine together in the following order: tomato sauce, white sauce, spinach and sausage slices, butternut squash. Repeat until you have used all the ingredients and finish with a sprinkling of cheese.
Cook in the oven for 20 minutes, or until the top is nice and crisp. Let it stand for 5 minutes before serving, so that the layers hold their shape.
Wonderful! Serve with steamed greens and a Miso dressing, which work really well as a contrasting tang to all of the earthy flavours of the lasagne.
Love this recipe? There’s more where that came from! Sign up to Veganuary and we’ll send you our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, recipes, nutritional advice and more – all for free!
Preparation
Soak your lentils in advance (2/3 hours before cooking ideally).
Method
Soak your lentils in water for 2/3 hours before you start cooking. If you don’t do this they will take a lot longer to cook.
Peel, wash and put your potatoes on to boil.
Finely dice your onions, carrots, celery and mushrooms and crush your garlic.
Put a casserole pot on a medium heat and add your soya butter.
When melted add the onions and sweat them off until they start to go translucent.
Add the garlic and sweat until both the onion and garlic are soft and translucent.
Add the rest of the veg and cook for another 10 minutes – stirring constantly.
When the veg has softened and started to brown add in your flour and stir through so it coats the veg.
Then add the flavourings – salt, pepper, cinnamon, mixed herbs and parsley. Stir these through.
Make 500ml of stock using your water and vegetable stock cube.
Mix the tomato puree into the stock.
Then start adding your stock to the veg very slowly. Every time your pour some stock into the veg stir it through until it has absorbed and slightly thickened.
Then drain your lentils and them to the pot and stir through.
If this makes the mixture too dry add some more boiling water in small amounts. If you need to add a lot of water you can throw in another half a stock cube so you don’t dilute all the flavour.
Leave the mixture to simmer for around 40-45 minutes but check it and stir it constantly to make sure it doesn’t burn. Keep the heat low to avoid this happening.
Add in a about a tablespoon of brown sauce at the end of the cooking process and stir it though.
When the lentil mix is cooked through add it to your baking dish.
Mash your potatoes with soya butter and unsweetened soya milk or another plant milk (I would not recommend anything sweet or almond milk).
Spread the mashed potato over the top of the lentil mix, smoothing it out with a fork. We added some parsley on top.
If you have any Violife cheese you could add this over the top but that is optional.
Then bake the shepherd’s pie a hot oven for 20-30 minutes until the potato starts to go golden brown. If you don’t bake it until the following day it will need longer.
When it’s ready put your hands together and give thanks that NO animal was harmed in the making of your dinner and enjoy!
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Preheat oven to 180c bake
Saute garlic, onion, herbs and spices with the coconut oil until onion becomes translucent
Stir in half of your black beans and sauté for another minute or so
Remove from the heat and transfer mixture to a food processor with the beetroot, salt and pepper, chia egg and oat flour
Process until mixture is well combined, you want it smooth but still relatively chunky
Add in the remaining black beans and pulse until combined, still leaving it quite chunky so you can partially see the black beans
With wet hands form into 4 medium sized patties around 2 cm thick
Pop onto a tray and place in the fridge for around 30 minutes to firm up
Bake for 30 minutes, carefully turning over after 15 minutes
Once cooked, serve on a toasted wholemeal bun with your burger staples (spinach, red onion, tomato, guacamole, ketchup)
** Best enjoyed with a side of baked sweet potato fries
Method
Sweat the onion and garlic until soft with a drizzle of olive oil, salt & pepper.
Remove from the heat and stir in the coriander (cilantro).
Put your drained chickpeas into the pan and crush with the bottom side of a ladle or potato masher.
Once you are happy with the chickpea consistency add the lemon zest/juice and gluten-free flour.
Mix this all together and season if necessary.
Divide into 5 balls and flatten into small circles.
Shallow fry until caramelised on both sides.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Pierce the aubergine many times with a fork, then put it on a baking tray with the red pepper and rub them both with olive oil. Bake in the oven – check the pepper after 15 minutes, then turn them both over with a spatula and bake for 15 minutes more. Take out the pepper and leave the aubergine in for another 10 minutes. They should both be soft and well coloured. Deseed the pepper, trim the aubergine, and roughly chop them both.
While that is going on, on a medium-high heat, warm 1 tablespoon of oil in a frying pan. Add the onions and fry for 6–8 minutes, then add the garlic, mushrooms, spices, salt and pepper, and continue cooking for 3–4 minutes. Add a splash more oil if needed. Now add the red pepper and aubergine, with the basil and tomatoes, and warm through on a low simmer for 6–7 minutes more. Stir in the parsley, cover and keep warm.
Your oven should still be rocking. Bring it back to 200°C/gas mark 6, lay out your flatbreads on baking trays and brush them with olive oil (especially the edges). Spread the vegetable mixture thinly over the bread – 4 tablespoons per lakmajun is normally cool. Top with cashews and tofu feta (if you’re using it) and pop into the oven for 12–15 minutes.
Serve drizzled with a little more olive oil and even a little squeeze of lemon juice. Depending on the size of the flatbread, this dish makes a great little or big plate and can be cut into wedges to be served as an appetizer or rolled around some salad. Raw cashew hummus (see page 160) is a perfect accompaniment.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 1.
Superduper superfoods is made using Provamel Soy Alternative to yogurt
Method
Fill a bowl half way with the soya alternative to yogurt
Ladle in the diced banana
Top off with the chia seeds, goji berries and raisins
Preparation
Makes Approx. 12 Truffles.
Method
Soak the dates in boiling water for 5 mins and then drain. In a food processor, mix all the truffle ingredients together to form a thick paste, it should be sticky but not too sticky to handle.
Roll into walnut sized balls and chill until they are a little firmer.
Melt the chocolate and either dip the firm truffles into the chocolate to half coat them, or just drizzle the chocolate over the top of the truffles on a tray.
Best kept refrigerated. Eat within 1 week or freeze.
Method
Make a flax egg by combining 1tbsp ground flaxseed with 3tbsp warm water. Give it a good whisk and let it stand for 15 minutes.
Bring the plant-based milk to the boil, then add the vegan margarine. Leave it to cool just enough that you can comfortably dip a finger in. Put the bread flour, salt, sugar and yeast in a bowl and make a well in the centre. Pour in the warm milk mixture, then add the flax egg. Mix well with a wooden spoon, then bring everything together with your hands until you have a dough.
Knead the dough on a floured surface for about 5 minutes. You want the dough to look smooth and elastic. Put the dough in an oiled bowl and cover with oiled cling film or a clean tea towel. Leave it to rise in a warm place for about an hour, or until it has doubled in size.
Tip in the sultanas, peel, orange zest, apple and cinnamon. Knead the fruit into the dough. Cover again with cling film or a tea towel and let it stand for another hour.
Divide the dough into about 15 pieces and roll each one into a ball. Arrange the buns on a lined baking tray leaving room between each one so it can expand. Cover and let them stand for another hour.
Heat the oven to 220C/200C fan/gas 7. Mix the plain flour with 5tbsp water and mix into a dough. Pinch off lumps of this dough and roll into long strips. Drape these over your buns in a cross shape. Bake in the oven for about 20 minutes, or until the buns are golden-brown on top.
Heat the jam until it melts. Take the buns out of the oven and spread the hot jam on top to make a glaze. Leave them to cool.
Want more delicious recipes? Sign up to Veganuary to receive recipes, meal plans, cookbooks and more for free! 
Method
Take one big plate
Wash the veggies and slice as desired
Cut the cheddar cheese into blocks
Set out on the big plate
Serve and eat!
Did you like this dish? Explore more of our budget vegan recipes.
Method
Chop up 1 large onion and add to a pan with a little oil
As the onion softens, finely chop 3 cloves of garlic and add to the pan
Add about half a teaspoon (each) of dried thyme, basil and oregano
Finely chop up 1-2 carrots (depending on size and your love of carrots… I always go for 2) and add to pan
Finely chop 2 sticks of celery and add to the pan
Add a good glug of red wine and let it all simmer down until you can no longer smell the alcohol
Add a dash of soy sauce (optional)
Add a packet/can of puy lentils and mix well
Add a can of chopped tomatoes and mix
Add 1 x generous teaspoon of Bouillon
Leave on a low heat to simmer, and for the flavour to mix, while you cook your pasta
In a big pan full of water, add your pasta
Cook al dente and drain
Heap great big spoonfuls of the lentil mixture on top of the pasta
Garnish with a little spring onion, fresh basil, nutritional yeast or grated vegan cheese if desired
Enjoy!
Method
Steam or boil the potatoes and mash once they are soft enough.
Add the flour and a pinch of salt to the mashed potatoes and mix to make a batter. Add water if needed. Leave the batter to rest in a plastic bag or a layer of wet cloth.
While waiting, prepare a vegetable stock by boiling the shiitake mushrooms, radish and ready-cut kelp. Once cooked, remove the mushrooms, chop into bite-sized pieces and place back into the stock. Remove the kelp to use as a topping later.
Cut the courgette and carrot into half-moon shaped pieces. Finely chop or mince the chillies and mix them with a small amount of soy sauce, sesame seeds and salt to taste.
Hand-pull the batter into flat, bite-sized pieces, add to the stock and bring to a boil.
When the hand-pulled noodles are almost cooked, add the courgette and carrot pieces and bring to a boil again. Season with soy sauce and salt to taste.
Pour into a bowl and add the kelp on top. Serve with the chilli in a separate bowl.
Method
For the cake:
Pop the oven on to 180 degrees centrigrade
Grease two 8 inch cake tins (I recommend you use springform tins if you can as these sponges have a delicate structure)
Mix the flour, cocoa powder, salt baking powder together in one bowl and set to one side
Melt the plain chocolate and whisk together with the dairy-free spread, caster sugar, soya milk, & vanilla extract
Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix with a metal spoon only until they are combined.  Warning – don’t use an electric whisk and don’t mix any longer than absolutely necessary – I really mean it when I say just enough to ensure the ingredients are combined.  Any lumps will work themselves out in the oven.  If you’re new to egg-free baking then this may seem counter-intuitive but unlike traditional baking, you want to keep air out until the cakes are in the oven.
Tap the bowl on the work surface to knock any air out of the mixture
Spoon equally into each of the cake tins
Tap each cake tin on the work surface to knock out any air you can
Place the tins in the oven for 20-25 minutes depending on your oven
Remove from the oven & test with a knife to ensure fully cooked
Leave to cool as they are for 5-10 minutes then remove the sides of the tin & leave to cool entirely
You should find that the sponges level off quite nicely so there’ll be no need to slice off the top of one but if you need to, do so with care
For the Ganache:
Melt the chocolate, coconut cream, and dairy-free spread over a low heat
Sift in the icing sugar and stir in gently until you have a smooth, glossy mixture
Leave to cool enough to be firmer but not too firm so you can still pour over the top of the finished cake
Spread some of the ganache onto the bottom sponge and gently place the second sponge on top
Once the ganache has cooled enough, pour over the cake, using a knife to spread it evenly around the sides.
Garnish as you fancy, I did so with mixed berries as you can see!
Tip: Decorate the cake on a plate so that any excess ganache is caught.  You may find it helps to pop it in the fridge to firm up the ganache so you can go back over with a knife to improve the presentation on the sides.  If you’re a real perfectionist when it comes to presentation (which I wasn’t on this occassion), a knife warmed under the hot tap will help you to achieve a smooth & glossy finish when finishing off the sides).
Method
In a saucepan boil the quinoa in stock, using twice as much liquid as quinoa
Cook the quinoa till completely soft and leave to cool
Peel the sweet potato, cut into chunks and bake for 20 minutes till soft
Put the kale in a colander, pour boiling water over it slowly then submerge in cold water
Drain and put on a cloth
Soak the edamame in boiling water for 10 minutes then drain
Put in a large mixing bowl
Toast the seeds in a frying pan on a medium heat till they start to pop
Break the pecans into pieces
Add all of the ingredients, including the yuzu, oil and tamari to the bowl
Mix well, add salt if necessary
Method
Preheat oven to 180° C, 160° C fan, Gas mark 4.
Place soya milk and 1 tablespoon of the orange juice in a mixing bowl and set aside for 5 minutes.
Sieve the flour, add the orange zest with the other cake ingredients and mix until well blended, light and fluffy, adding 1 tablespoon of the orange juice if needed.
Divide the mixture between a cupcake tray lined with 12 paper cases and bake in preheated oven for 15-20 minutes until well risen and golden.
Transfer to a wire rack to cool.
Meanwhile to make the icing, beat together the Flora Freedom, icing sugar and 1-2 tablespoons of orange juice until well mixed.
Spoon into a piping bag with a large star nozzle and when the cakes have completely cooled, decorate with swirls of orange icing and slices of ginger.
Preparation
Serves 12
You will need a deep 8 inch tart tin with removable base for this recipe.
Method
Place the flour, xantham gum, margarine and vegetable fat in a food processor and pulse until the mixture is of a breadcrumb like consistency. Add the lemon zest and caster sugar and pulse for another minute. Tip in the lemon juice and 1 tbsp of cold water, pulsing as you go, until the mixture begins to pull together to form a dough. You can then add the extra water if you think it needs it. Turn the pastry in to a large bowl and, using the tips of your fingers, pull together into a ball.  Knead lightly for 2 minutes until smooth and elastic to your touch.  Lay the pastry between two large layers of clingfilm and roll it out – ensuring that the pastry becomes no thinner than 3mm.  Peel off the uppermost layer of clingfilm and turn the pastry in to its tin, filling in any cracks or gaps that may appear with extra pastry, patted flat with your fingertips.
Preheat the oven to 200c.  Blind bake the lemon pastry for 30 minutes, after 15 minutes remove the parchment and baking beans from the pastry and return to the oven for the remaining cooking time.  Once the pastry is cooked and lightly golden, remove from the oven and set aside to cool down.
Place the agar flakes in a high sided saucepan with 330ml of water.  Bring to the boil and leave to boil gently for 10 minutes, whisking every now and then until the agar has dissolved.  Don’t worry if the liquid foams up, this is normal and why you need to use a high sided pan.  Add the sugar to the liquid and continue to boil gently, whisking occasionally, for 3 – 4 minutes or until the sugar has dissolved into the liquid, then remove from the heat.
In a separate bowl, combine the lemon juice, zest and cornflour and stir together until smooth.  Add this mixture and the oat cream to the agar liquid and whisk together constantly, over a medium heat, for around 5 minutes or until the mixture thickens and becomes syrupy. Take off the heat and set aside to cool for a few minutes. Pour the lemon filling into the pastry tart, leave to cool at room temperature for 30 minutes and then place in the fridge to set for 1 hour.
Preparation
1. Preheat the oven to 180C. Cut the squash in half length-ways and scoop out and discard the seeds. Score the flesh with a cross hatch pattern using a sharp knife, brush lightly with a little oil, season generously with salt and pepper. Place on a parchment lined baking tray flesh side down and cook in the oven for 50-60 mins or until completely soft all the way through, you can check this by piercing the flesh with a knife.
2. Cook the pasta as per the packet instructions in seasoned water – Whilst the pasta is cooking, scoop the flesh from the butternut leaving the skin behind and place in a blender or processor along with the lemon juice, vegan parmesan, powdered garlic, mustard powder, 1 tbsp. extra virgin olive oil, Alpro Oat Unsweetened drink and nutmeg.
3. Heat the sauce through on the hob, adjusting the seasoning to taste with salt and pepper.
4. Heat the remaining tbsp. of olive oil in a small pan over a medium heat and fry the sage leaves and hazelnuts until crispy.
5. Mix the pasta into the sauce and spoon into bowls, top with the sage and hazelnuts to serve.
Preparation
Serves 2
Method
Stir Chia, vanilla and cinnamon into the Coconut Milk and place in the refrigerator for 20 mins.
When ready to eat, add coconut shavings (raw or roasted), granola and fresh pomegranate seeds.
(When I first tried to de-pip a pomegranate, I was so frustrated; and covered with red pomegranate juice! So, just a quick tip for all pomegranate newbies – cut the pomegranate into segments and de-pip by hand in a bowl of water. The pith will float and the seeds will sink. Pour the pith and water out and you will be left with the seeds.)
Like this recipe? Sign up to try Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
1. In a bowl, mix your Crackd, sesame oil, rice wine vinegar and kala namak till well combined
2. Heat some oil in a pan on a medium temperature and when the oil is hot, add in your vegan ‘egg’ mixture, be sure to keep mixing this to create a scramble
3. Once your scramble has formed, place to the side and heat another pan with some oil
4. In this pan add your tomatoes and spring onion on a low-medium heat and fry for 2-3 minutes
5. Add in your tomato paste, sugar, salt and soy sauce and combine with your veggies, you may need a small splash of water if your temperature is higher, if this is the case then turn it down a little
6. Once that is combined, add in your Crackd, water and chives
7. Let this simmer until you have a thicker sauce and add salt and pepper to taste
8. Serve with rice and top with more chives or spring onions
(Optional: Serve with some vegan prawn crackers)
Preparation
Soak sundried tomatoes overnight and then drain off the soak-water. (If you use pre-soaked sundried tomatoes you will need about 80g of them rather than 40g.)
Method
Blend together well with a hand blender to make a pâté.
Method
In a mixing bowl place cooked brown rice, sesame oil, tamari, ginger, rice vinegar and maple syrup and mix well until the rice is evenly coated.
Add sesame seeds and coriander.
Prepare your vegetables. We like to finely dice everything and combine it together to resemble ‘unfried rice’. You can also cut your vegetables into matchsticks.
In serving bowls combine rice, vegetables and nori however you like. Garnish with spring onions and serve.
Preparation
This recipe serves 2
Method
Heat the oil in a pan and add the mustard seeds and cumin seeds, then the sweet neem leaves and asafoetida
After the seeds have popped add the tomatoes and chili, and let it cook for a few minutes
Add the butter beans, a pinch of turmeric, the coriander and salt to taste
Let it cook for a few minutes, then add the chopped coriander
Cook for a further 5 – 7 minutes, then serve with wraps or
We enjoy this with mini wraps. It can also be eaten with rice or roti.
Method
Want to impress your friends with a dish that sounds impressive but is relatively simple to make? Invite them over for a Spanakorizo! It’s a Greek dish that is served either hot or cold but either way you get to say the name of it and look like the coolest banana in he bunch.
The Greeks typically serve this with feta, olives and lemon. You can adapt this by substituting with a vegan cheese.
Serves 6
cook the rice according to the instructions on the packaging.
in another large pot, using olive oil sauté the onion and garlic until translucent. On a medium to high heat this should take around 2 minutes.
after washing the spinach add to water that has been brought to boil. It should take about 1 minute to wilt. Then add to the pot with with the onions and garlic.
add the rice to the pot with the other ingredients and stir until mixed in. The juice from your lemon should a nice kick to the flavour. At this stage you may decide to add in salt or more oil.
in the photo it’s been dressed with olives, humus and a bay leaf. Feel free to garnish it as you wish e.g. with non-dairy cheese or lemon zest.
Method
Whisk together m.lk, water, cocoa powder, vanilla, cinnamon and salt over a medium heat 
 Bring the oats to a low boil and reduce. Cook until the liquid has absorbed for about 5-6 mins. The oats should be chewy!  
Whilst your oats cook, heat the peanut butter in the microwave until smooth – about 30 secs  
Serve in a bowl drizzling a tablespoon of melted peanut butter.  
Top with some choccie treats or banana – because why not?! 
Method
Fry the onion and garlic in a few tablespoons of oil for a few minutes until soft.
Add the mushrooms, tofu, chilli, thyme and liquid aminos/soy sauce and fry for another 10 mins, until all ingredients have started to brown.
Transfer ingredients to a blender, or bowl to use a hand blender, along with breadcrumbs and blend until a thick sausage mix type mixture is formed. This doesn’t have to be smooth – the odd bit of mushroom or tofu will be fine in the wellington.
Take one sheet of just roll pastry and cut in half length-ways. With one on the halves, slice into strips diagonally. Place the entire piece on baking paper on an oven tray.
Place the mixture to cover the entire half of pastry and place pastry strips across the top in a criss-cross pattern. Sprinkle on sesame seeds.
Bake at around 200 degrees for approx 35 mins, or until the top looks all nice and brown and crispy.
Serve in the middle of the table – this makes a beautiful centrepiece to be sliced and shared with all your usual Christmas dinner trimmings!
Method
Wrap the tofu in a clean tea towel and press well to remove the excess moisture (this is much easier if it has been frozen and then defrosted first). Cut it into cubes and coat it with soy sauce, salt, pepper, and dried chillies then set aside
Boil the edamame for 10 minutes or until soft enough to eat
Boil the soba noodles according to the instructions on the packet
Add 1-2 tablespoons of oil into a frying pan and shallow fry the tofu, turning regularly so all sides brown
Meanwhile, add some more oil to a wok or large frying pan and add the onions and chillies (if you don’t have separate pans, then precook the tofu until crisp then set to one side)
Once the onions and chillies have started to brown, add the garlic, ginger, and all spice, then the carrot, pepper, and greens. Also add a generous dash of soy sauce, the yeast extract, and maple syrup
If required, add a couple of tablespoons of water to prevent the pan from drying out and burning the dish
After the veg has started to soften, add the noodles, edamame, and tofu. Mix well and ensure that all items are heated
Season to taste and garnish with spring onions
Discover even more quick and easy vegan recipes!
Method
Toast the bagel, spread a deliciously thick layer of hummus on the hot bagel and top with sweet plum baby vine tomatoes, thinly sliced cucumber and a spot of reduced balsamic vinegar. This brings a delectable taste of sweetness to this easy to assemble sandwich!
Method
Soak the wakame for 15 minutes along with the saffron threads.
Cut away any tough ribs from the wakame, and dice into small pieces.
Bring the dashi stock to the boil, (or if using stock cube add this to four cups of hot water).
Add the carrots, and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the tofu cubes and simmer for a few more minutes.
Add the wakame, saffron threads and soaking water to the soup, simmer for 5 more minutes, then remove from the heat.
Stir in the chopped chives.
In a cup, thin the miso 
Leave the soup to sit for 5 minutes to allow the tofu to absorb the flavours.
Garnish with some fresh coriander.
Dashi Stock
An essential ingredient in macrobiotic dishes and Japanese cuisine; an earthy flavoured stock made from kombu soaking water. It’s a great base for soups, stews, sauces, noodle broths and dips.  Usually dashi is seasoned to taste with a generous serving of shoyu (natural soy sauce). Often mirin is also added, plus a little juice squeezed from a piece of grated ginger root.
To prepare a basic dashi:
Soak a six inch piece of kombu and three dried shitake, or maitake, mushrooms in about 10 cups of water for at least 15 minutes.
Remove the mushroom, and thinly slice the caps.  Discard the root as it can be bitter tasting.
Return them to the water, bring it to the boil and simmer gently for 10 minutes.
Remove the kombu and keep it to use for cooking, as a condiment, or with beans.
Preparation
Place a large non-stick saucepan over a medium heat with 2-3 tbsp of oil and add the onions, when clear add The Meatless Farm Co mince. Cook together for 5 minutes, until the mince has browned all over. Next, add the garlic, 1 -2 teaspoons of chilli powder, depending on how hot you like you like it, and the cumin and coriander. Fry together for 1 -2 minutes more. Sprinkle over the ﬂour and stir well.
Slowly add the wine, followed by the stock, stirring constantly. Tip the tomatoes and kidney beans into the pan and stir in the tomato purée, caster sugar (optional), oregano and bay leaf. Season with a pinch of salt and plenty of freshly ground black pepper.
Bring to a simmer on the hob, then cover loosely with a lid. Reduce the heat and leave to simmer gently for 45 minutes, stirring occasionally until the sauce has thickened. Adjust the seasoning to taste then serve.
Serve stuffed into peppers or with rice.
Preparation
This recipe serves 2
Method
How to make the rice: 
Wash the rice – I usually use a small teacup of brown rice for 2 people
Add 2 & 3/4 teacups of water
Put it all in a pan on a high heat, with the lid off
When it begins to froth, put the lid on, reduce the heat as low as it can go and leave it alone for 20 minutes
After 20 minutes if there is any water left, continue to cook it for 5 minutes
How to make the Shaak:
Chop the tomatoes
Chop the chilli
Put the coconut oil in a pan, leave it on medium heat and put the lid on
When it’s hot enough add some cumin seeds, rye, sweet neem leaves and a pinch of asafetida
Put the lid on and wait until the seeds pop
When the silence in between pops is longer, add some raw peanuts, the chopped chilli and the tomatoes and put the lid back on – it may sizzle when you add the tomatoes and if it does, it’s fine
After a few minutes add the sweetcorn
Add salt to taste
Add dried coriander powder to taste
Add a pinch of turmeric
You may wish to add a squeeze of lemon juice
If you like spicy food, you may want to add some chilli powder in addition to the fresh chilli
Finally, garnish with freshly chopped coriander and your Shaak is ready
Method
Place the raisins in a bowl and cover with boiling water. Place the dates in a separate bowl, cover with boiling water and set aside.
Remove the tough outer leaves from the cabbage half and cut in half through the stalk. Cut out the core from each of the two sections and then shred each piece finely along the short length.
Top and tail the spring onion and shred thinly. Chop the celery into half inch pieces.
Wash the coriander and chop leaves and stalk leaving a few whole leaves to decorate.
Roughly chop the walnut halves, again, leaving a few whole to decorate.
In a large bowl combine the cabbage, walnuts and celery.
To make the sauce, drain, stone and finely chop the softened dates. Mix in a blow along with the walnut oil, balsamic vinegar, mustard and seasoning.
Grind the caraway seeds using a pestle and mortar or spice grinder and stir into the sauce.
Core the pear and cut into slices or small chunks. If you aren’t going to serve the salad straight away then you can use a little lime or lemon juice to stop the pear from browning.
To serve, drain the raisins. Pile the cabbage mixture onto a serving platter and scatter over the raisins and coriander. Arrange the pear on top and spoon over the date and balsamic sauce.
Method
Peel and grate the carrots and parsnip and put them on a baking tray to roast for about 5 minutes. Rinse and drain the beans, then transfer them to a bowl and mash with a fork. Add in the spices and 2 table spoons tomato puree then mash again. Next mix in the carrot, parsnip and chickpea flour. You should have a stiff dough that sticks together.
Take a handful of the mixture and shape it into a burger patty. Place on a floured baking tray. Do this until you have 6-8 burgers. Put the burgers into the oven to cook for 30 minutes, turning once.
To make the sweet potato fries peel the sweet potatoes and cut them into chip shapes. Make sure not to make them too fat otherwise they will take too long to cook! Place all of the fries on a baking tray with room between them and coat with a glug of olive oil. Season with salt and pepper and put in the oven to bake for 30 minutes.
To make the ‘buns’ remove the mushroom stork and peel off the skin. Place the mushrooms on a baking tray and put it in the oven once the burgers have been cooking for 20 minutes. Turn the burgers over if you haven’t done so already. After 5 minutes turn over the mushrooms.
Mix the remaining 2 table spoons of tomato puree with two table spoons of water to make a quick tomato sauce. Then mash the avocado.
Remove the mushrooms and burgers from the oven. The mushrooms should have softened but still be able to hold the weight of the burgers. Make the burger by layering a mushroom with tomato sauce, a curried bean burger, avocado, a second burger and a mushroom.
The fries should be done by now so remove them from the oven and serve with the burgers.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Barbecue sauce: Combine garlic, paprika, brown sugar, syrup, vinegar, olive oil and barbecue sauce.
Mix together well and marinade sausages in the barbecue sauce for 30 minutes.
Slice the sausages WHILE YOU SOAK THE SKEWERS IN WATER AND THEN THREAD THE SAUSAGES ONTO THE SKEWERS.
Grill the sausages on the barbecue, turning and basting continuously with the remaining marinade for 10 minutes.
Cook couscous as per instructions on pack.
Add cucumber, rosa tomatoes, red onion and basil to the couscous.
Add the lemon juice, orange juice, olive oil, salt and pepper.
Mix the ingredients lightly until combined.
Serve with couscous salad and lemon wedges.
Method
Boil soba noodles, following the package instructions. It usually takes around 8 minutes to boil soba.
Drain and cool soba noodles in cold running water. Drain well and set aside.
Mix all the ingredients for dressing in a small bowl.
Place soba noodles, carrot, yellow bell pepper, and cucumber in a large bowl.
Pour the dressing over them and mix well.
Sprinkle with the black sesame seeds. You can also add bean sprouts and a little grated red cabbage for extra colour and texture!
Variation: Add tofu for a more filling meal.
Method
Preheat oven to 350.
Combine all ingredients in a large bowl.
Pour into a greased 9×9 baking pan.
Bake 25-30 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean.
Cool, cut into squares and enjoy!
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Dry fry the cumin and coriander in a frying pan and then grind in a pestle and mortar.
Halve the preserved lemon and remove the seeds, chop finely.
Heat the olive oil in a wok or large casserole and fry the onion until translucent.
Add the garlic, halved chilli and spices and stir-fry for a few minutes, until the spices are fragrant.
Add the potatoes, preserved lemon and fennel and stir-fry for a couple of minutes.
Pour in the stock or boiling water, enough to cover, bring to the boil and simmer gently for 10 minutes.
Add the tomatoes and simmer until all the vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes and the sauce has thickened.
Add the olives and apricots and simmer for a further 5 minutes and take off the heat (if you leave the tagine to stand for as long as you can at this point the flavours will develop).
Remove the cinnamon stick, chilli and bay leaf.
Add the lemon juice and pomegranate syrup to taste and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Garnish with lots of fennel tops or freshly chopped parsley or coriander.
Serve with cous cous and harissa.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 4 or more
Method
To make the Green Chile Cashew Cheeze
In a small saucepan, add butternut squash, cashews, garlic and 1 tablespoon salt. Cover with water and bring to a slow boil over a medium-high heat for 10 minutes until butternut is completely cooked. Remove from heat to cool, drain and add mixture to a high-speed blender.
Add in remaining ingredients (except the chilli) and blend for 3-4 minutes until wicked smooth, then add the chilli and pulse for 5 seconds to incorporate but still leave it chunky.
When you are ready to assemble the casserole
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Lightly but evenly spray a 9 x 13-inch casserole dish with oil. Layer 1/3 of the tortillas in the bottom, then top with 1/3 of the chopped chard. Combine the tomatoes, onion and parsley and layer 1/3 of that mixture, 1/4 of the green chile cashew cheeze, 1/3 of the black beans and 1/3 sliced avocado, so it’s evenly distributed. Repeat process two more times. Evenly add remaining Cashew Cream to the top and bake, uncovered, for 1 hour, or until bubbly and golden brown. Add the crumbled tortilla chips on the top and bake for an additional 5 minutes, keeping an eye on it to ensure they just turn slightly golden and do not burn.
While the casserole is baking, make the salsa pico by gently mixing all of the ingredients together in a medium bowl. Set aside.
Once bake time is done, remove casserole from the oven and let it sit for 10 – 15 minutes before serving.
To serve
Top with a few tablespoons of the fresh Salsa Pico (save some for the side) fresh cilantro, jalapeño, lime wedge and brown rice, tortilla chips and hot sauce as desired.
Method
Cover the peas with boiling water and bring to the boil.
Simmer gently then add the bouillon, salt and turmeric.
Blend until smooth then add the pea protein.
Blend again until the powder is fully dissolved.
Preparation
Makes approximately 10 balls
Method
In a bowl mix together the peanut butter with the agave/maple syrup vigorously for 60 seconds. In this time the peanut butter should turn from quite runny to a thick consistency. The more you stir the thicker it will get.
Add in the coconut flour a little bit at a time, stirring again vigorously until you’ve got yourself a thick batter.
Warning – quite a bit of muscle is required for this step, if you’re anything like me you may need a break in between the mixing!
Add the sea salt and cacao nibs and stir until well combined.
By now the mixture should stick together quote nicely and easily be rolled into a ball
Take small spoon sized pieces from the batter, roll into individual balls and place on a tray lined with parchment paper. You should get around 10 from this mixture if you managed to refrain from “sampling” the batter
Once they’re all rolled out pop in the freezer while you prepare your chocolate mixture
In a saucepan over a very low heat melt down you coconut oil and stir in the agave and cacao making sure they’re mixed well and set off the heat allowing to cool to room temperature
With a fork, dip the balls into the melted chocolate. Tap off excess chocolate on the side of the pot and repeat for rest. (Save the leftover melted chocolate for a second layer.)
For added texture , roll the balls in cacao nibs then place on a plate or cutting board lined with parchment paper
Place back in the freezer to harden for approx. 10 minutes and repeat the chocolate dipping step to get a nice thick chocolate coating.
Place back in the freezer for another 10 minutes or until the chocolate layer is hard
Serve and enjoy!
Preparation
Serves four
Method
Heat sesame oil in a wok or large frying pan over a medium heat. Add the garlic, ginger, coriander and turmeric and saute, stirring for a minute.
Add the mushrooms and turn the heat to high, after a minute, add the lime juice and soy sauce, sizzle until reduced and the mushrooms lightly coloured.
Add the pepper, saute for a minute, then add the noodles and stock.
Reduce the heat to medium and leave to simmer for 10 minutes until most of the broth has absorbed into the noodles. Stir through the chives before dividing between bowls.
Serve with extra chives sprinkled on top and a scattering of seeds, if using and plenty of chilli sauce.
Preparation
tibits at home: stylish vegetarian cuisine is a sumptuous cookbook, split into four seasonal sections, containing 50 recipes that will delight all loyal tibits fans, as well as those who are new to the brand. 80 per cent of tibits’ menu is vegan and many of the recipes in the book are also vegan – good news for the rapidly increasing number of vegans in the UK.
Method
Cook the lentils for about 8 minutes, in salted water. Drain.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic. Peel the ginger and grate finely. Heat a frying pan, then add the oil and sweat the onion until transparent. Add the garlic, ginger and spices and fry for 1 minute, until the mixture develops its fragrance.
Wash and pluck the spinach, add to the pan and cook for 2-3 minutes.
Add coconut milk and water, and stir well.
Add the drained lentils, mix in well and cook for a further 5 minutes.
Season to taste with sea salt, freshly ground black pepper and lemon juice.
Loved this recipe? Why not check our some more vegan curry recipes!
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
• Lightly fry onion, mushrooms, pepper, cashews and chicken style pieces for 5 minutes or until golden.
• Add seasonings and curry paste.
• Add single cream and water.
• Add spinach.
• Simmer for a further 10 – 15 minutes, adding water if/as required.
• Serve with rice and pita.
Preparation
Add the water to a saucepan with a lid, bring to the boil, turn to a low heat and add the mulling spice bag. Put the lid on the pan and simmer on low heat for 5 minutes
Remove the mulling bag, add the apples and replace the lid. Simmer on a low heat for 10 minutes
When the apple starts to dissolve, add the frozen fruit, goji berries and acai powder. Replace the lid and continue to simmer on low heat for 5 minutes
Stir in in 6 dessertspoons of rice syrup (or to taste)
Serve with vegan yogurt or cream, as a porridge topping or use to make a fruit crumble!
Method
Chop up a whole load of potatoes, chuck ’em in a big pan and get them bubbling (you can leave the skins on, as that’s where heaps of goodness is)
Make the filling (use this Lentil Bolognese for inspo)
Chop up 1 large onion and add to a pan with a little oil
As the onion softens, finely chop 3 cloves of garlic and add to the pan
Add about half a teaspoon of dried thyme
Finely chop up 1-2 carrots (depending on size and your love of carrots) and add to pan
Finely chop 2 sticks of celery and add to the pan
Add a good glug of red wine and let it all simmer down until you can no longer smell the alcohol
Add a dash of soy sauce (optional)
Add a packet/can of puy lentils and mix well
Add a can of chopped tomatoes and mix
Add 1 x generous teaspoon of Bouillon
Leave on a low heat to simmer, and for the flavour to mix
When the potatoes are nice and soft, drain and start mashing!
Add pepper, salt, a little vegan spread and some grated Violife cheese to the mash (the cheese makes the topping go extra crispy)
In a large oven-proof dish, pour out the lentil mixture and then spoon the mash on top
Gently spread the mash out so it covers as much of the filling as possible (although a little bubbling around the sides is nice)
Put the dish into a pre-heated oven, 220C, and cook for 30/40 minutes – until the top is golden
Serve with some lovely greens and large glass of red
Method
First, prepare the aubergine: sprinkle the discs lightly with salt and leave for 30 minutes to 1 hour before patting dry with kitchen paper. Heat a grill pan or griddle on high, then toss in the aubergine slices with the olive oil. Grill until browned, roughly 3-5 minutes on each side.
Set the aubergines aside and prepare the courgette: wash, pat dry and trim the courgettes. Cut into thin chips, place in a bowl, sprinkle with salt and mix thoroughly. Then add almond milk enough to cover courgettes. Leave for 30 minutes, so they have time to release any bitter juices. If you have a deep-fat fryer, heat the oil to 180°C. If not, choose a sturdy deep saucepan with jam thermometer clipped to the side, or alternatively heat to medium low.
Pour the plain flour into a large mixing bowl. Season with a good sprinkle of salt and black pepper, and the cayenne pepper. Drain the milk from the courgettes, then toss the courgettes into the flour until they’re lightly coated. Fry for 2–3 minutes, or until golden and crisp, then tip on to crumpled kitchen paper to remove any excess oil.
Next, reheat the grill pan or griddle and grill the Beyond Meat patties until browned, roughly 2 minutes on each side.
Finally, build your burger: spread the bottom half of your sliced brioche or ciabatta with a thick layer of the mustard mayo. Add rocket, followed by the tomato, onion, grilled aubergine, Beyond Meat Patty, Violife cheddar, smoked semi-dried tomatoes and lastly the crispy courgettes. Top with the second half of the bun, press down lightly and serve immediately.
Did you like this recipe? Try the Beyond Double Decker Burger too!
Method
Pre-heat oven to 180°C/ 160°C fan and line a loaf tin with parchment paper.
To make the butter milk mix oat milk with apple cider vinegar and set aside for 5-10 minutes.
Mix plain flour, baking soda, baking powder and pink salt.
In another bowl mash 3 bananas, then mix in your coconut sugar.
Slowly mix in buttermilk and coconut oil with the mashed banana mixture.
Combine wet and dry and ingredients.
Divide the batter in half.
Add in cacao powder, coconut sugar, coconut oil and oat milk in one half of the batter. Fold until well combined.
Into a pre-lined loaf tin – pour half of the plain banana bread batter, then the chocolate banana bread batter, reserving around 3-4 tbsp. Pour in the other half of the plain batter, then dollop the remaining chocolate batter on top. To make the marbled effect grab a butter knife and swirl it into the batter in a large ‘S’ motion. Do this 2 – 3 times, no more!!
Bake for 45-55 minutes, or until you can insert a toothpick / clean knife into the middle and it comes out clean
Notes
When using melted coconut oil in any recipe with oat milk, it’s important to use room temperature milk and also slowly mix in the two when combining. If you use cold plant milk, it will cause the coconut oil to go back to its natural state and, you’ll have to re-melt the whole mixture in the microwave.
Method
Heat a griddle pan with 1 tbsp of olive oil on high heat. Place the burgers on the pan and cook according to pack instructions, about 4 minutes on each side.  
To assemble the burger, slice the burger buns open, spread the piccalilli sauce on the base, top with lettuce, place one burger patty, 2 Violife Mature Cheddar flavour slices, the other patty, 2 Violife Original flavour slices, the tomato and the onion slices.  
Sprinkle with some alfalfa sprouts and top the burger with the other half of the bun.  
 Did you enjoy this burger? Explore some of our vegan BBQ recipes.
Method
In a large bowl, toss all the ingredients for the tempeh sausage. Cover and let marinate while you make your polenta.
In a Dutch oven or another large pot, bring 4 cups of water, olive oil and salt to a boil. Gradually add your corn meal to the boiling water using a whisk to blend it in. Try to break up any clumps you see start to form. Once all your corn meal is added, whisk in your pepper and nutritional yeast. Then move to stirring your polenta with a wooden spoon, be sure to scrap the sides and bottom of the pot while you stir. You’re going to be stirring pretty much continually while your polenta thickens for about 40-45 minutes. Polenta is a needy dish.
Once your polenta is soft but firm – you’ll know what I mean, put a lid on top . Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil in your deepest skillet over a medium heat. Once your oil is hot, toss in your tempeh sausage mix, white wine, liquid amino acids and onions, and cook while mixing with a spatula until your tempeh has slightly crispy edges. Then toss your tomatoes and bell peppers in and let them cook for about 5 minutes, flipping them every once in a while to make sure they’re cooking evenly. Once your peppers are tender, mix in your spinach and basil leaves. Once they’re wilted, you’re done!
Serve your tempeh sausage & heirloom tomatoes over your polenta – being sure to get some of the thin “sauce” on the bottom of the skillet.
Preparation
Prepare the marinated tofu first, a couple of days ahead would be even better. I always have a jar of this at home, it adds a little oomph to a lot of dishes.
Method
Tofu: Remove the tofu from the package and press it between several layers of paper towels. While pressing the tofu, whisk the lemon juice with salt, pepper and olive oil until the mixture turns into a smooth emulsion. Cube the dried tofu and fill the cubes in a jar. Peel the garlic cloves , cut them in halves lengthwise and add them to the tofu. Pour the lemon and olive oil mixture over the tofu cubes so they’re completely covered and close the jar with a lid. Shake the jar a little. Set aside, but not in the fridge, to let the tofu marinate. Shake occasionally to keep everything evenly covered and let it marinate as long as possible. This get’s more zingy the longer it sits.
Cashew Parmesan: Mix 1 cup roasted and salted cashews with 1/3 cup nutritional yeast and 1 teaspoon of Shiro Miso in a blender until the mixture has the texture of grated parmesan. If you use unsalted cashews, add a teaspoon of salt to the mixture. I recommend you double or triple the recipe, it keeps in the fridge and you’ll want to use it in other dishes, too.
Roast the buckwheat with half of the vegan butter or margarine in a pot. Add the broth, curcuma, majoram and parsley. Close the lid and let the mixture simmer on small heat for 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 200C/390F.
Turn off the heat under the buckwheat and let it soak for another 10 minutes. Meanwhile, clean the spring onions, top and tail and cut them in fine rings. Scald and peel the tomatoes and remove the core. Grease an oven-proof casserole dish and place the tomatoes top down in the dish. Mix spring onions, buckweat and cashew parmesan and distribute the mixture evenly around the tomatoes.
Crumble the marinated tofu with a fork, mix the crumbles with 2 tablespoons of the marinade and sprinkle the dish with the tofu and marinade mixture.
Bake for 30 minutes at 200C/390F.
Serve with tomato and cucumber salad and soy yogurt or vegan sour cream.
Guten Appetit!
Method
Slice the aubergine and courgettes into 1 cm thick slices. Coat the base of a baking tray with oil, add the vegetables to the dish coating in the oil, add salt, pepper, and thyme to taste.
Blend the cashew nuts, with 80 ml of water (you may need to adjust this to taste), a clove of garlic, and 1 spoon of nutritional yeast. It is ready when it is a smooth thick paste.
Once the vegetables are baked, take out of the oven. Now it is time to plate up! Layer it aubergine-bolognaise sauce- spinach leaves – cashew cheese – and then start again, until you have reached your desired height!
Method
Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the hearts of palm and sauté for 8 to 10 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Cook until golden brown on all sides. Set aside to cool. Add the celery and peppers and mix well.
Heat 1/2 tablespoon of oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and sauté until translucent, 3 to 4 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté for 1 minute.
Remove from the heat and add the onion mixture to the hearts of palm. Mix well. Add the Old Bay seasoning, lemon juice, and mayo.
Toast the hoagie rolls until gold brown, then butter the insides.
Divide the hearts of palm mixture between both rolls. Serve warm with wedges of lemon.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan seafood recipes.
Method
Shake the saffron strands around in a slightly hot frying pan for a few seconds until dry but not coloured, then tip into a small mortar or coffee cup and grind to a powder with the pestle or a wooden spoon. Add a splash of the stock and set aside.
Bring a pan of salted water to the boil. Drop in the broad beans, bring back to the boil and cook for 2 minutes. Lift out with a slotted spoon into a colander, leave to drain, then tip into a bowl.
Bring the pan of water back to the boil, add the green beans and cook for 3 minutes. Remove with the slotted spoon to the colander and refresh under cold water. Tip onto a plate.
Bring the water back to the boil once more, add the asparagus, bring back to the boil, drain and refresh under cold water. Pop the broad beans out of their skins and add to the plate of green beans with the asparagus.
Heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large non-stick frying pan or shallow flameproof casserole dish over a medium-high heat. Add the courgettes and fry them for 2–3 minutes until a light golden brown. Lift out onto a plate.
Add the remaining tablespoon of oil and the onion to the pan and fry gently for 5 minutes. Add the red and green pepper and continue frying until the onion is soft and lightly golden. Stir in the garlic and pimentón and fry for 1 minute more.
Add the tomatoes and fry for 2–3 minutes until softened, then stir in the rest of the stock, the saffron mixture and some seasoning to taste and bring to the boil.
Sprinkle in the rice and the parsley, stir lightly to evenly distribute the rice around the pan, then scatter over the cooked beans, asparagus, courgettes, peas and artichokes and shake the pan gently so that they all bed down slightly into the rice.
Lower the heat and leave to simmer vigorously for 6 minutes, then lower the heat again and leave to simmer gently for a further 14 minutes, until all the liquid has been absorbed and the rice is tender, but still with a little bit of a bite to it.
Remove the pan from the heat, cover with a large lid or clean tea towel and leave to rest for 5 minutes before serving.
Preparation
Prep time: 20 minutes
Cook time: 30 minutes
Makes: 4 portions
Skill level: Medium
Equipment needed: 
Hand blender
Jug or bowl
Muffin tray
Mixing spoon
Tips:
For a gluten version simply omit the gram flour and potato starch/tapioca flour. Replace
with 100g plain flour.
The pudding batter can be mixed and blended in a food processor.
Use ripe or overripe bananas. Never use under-ripe bananas.
Either muscovado, coconut or molasses sugar must be used to give the pudding and
sauce a toffee/caramel flavour.
Method
1. Set your oven to 180c/350f/gas mark 4. Put all of the ingredients in a large bowl or jug.
2. Using a hand blender, blend all of the ingredients ensuring there are no lumps.
3. Pour into 4 large muffin holes.
4. Bake for 30 minutes until cooked through.
Preparation
In a wok or heavy-bottomed frying pan heat the oil, add the peppers and fennel and cook for 10–15 minutes over a moderate heat until crunchy, stirring occasionally.
Add the garlic and peas and continue cooking for 2 minutes.
Season, scatter with the parsley and serve.
Recipe taken from The Meat Free Monday Cookbook.  Foreword by Paul, Mary and Stella McCartney.  Published by Kyle Books.  Photography by Tara Fisher.
Find more great-tasting recipes on the Meat Free Monday website here.*
*Please note that this website also produces vegetarian recipes.
Preparation
Serves 4.
This vegan Tzaztiki is made using Provamel soya alternative to yogurt free from sugars.
Method
Mix all the ingredients together and serve chilled as a dip or topping to a dish.
Add some dill if you want a proper tzatziki, because without it’s actually a raïta, but we don’t want to nitpick!
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Empty the cashews, cocoa powder, warm water and pectin into a blender and blend on high until all is silky smooth. Pour into a large bowl and set aside.
Spoon the coconut cream into a medium saucepan and add the caster sugar and cubed dark chocolate. Heat very gently, regularly stirring until the sugar has dissolved and the chocolate has melted into the cream.
Measure the cornflour into a small bowl and add 2 tablespoons of the coconut chocolate mixture into the cornflour. Stir to combine until you have a thick, uniform, soft paste. Return this paste to the saucepan and continue to stir until dissolved. Continue to cook the ice cream base for 5-7 minutes, over a gentle heat until steam rises from the mixture and the cornflour has performed its task and thickened the mixture. The consistency will be that of double cream.
Pour the warm coconut and chocolate base into the cashew mixture and stir until thoroughly well combined. Cover with cling film and set the ice cream base aside to cool.
Transfer to an ice cream machine and churn until frozen, about 45 minutes. Transfer to a freezeable container and freeze overnight. Remove from the freezer a 5-10 minutes before scooping.
Preparation
Slice the onion and potatoes, add salt, and sauté over medium heat.
Meanwhile, mix the chickpea flour with the water until it’s like a thick liquid.
Add the mixture to the pan where the onion and potatoes are cooking.
Continue cooking the omelette until brown, then flip it over and cook the other side until brown.
Preparation
Pre-heat your oven to 220c / Rack Position on upper middle shelf
Toss the diced pumpkin with 2 tbsp oil and a pinch of salt. Roast on a low sided tray for 20 minutes
Put 200g of the cooked pumpkin with the chestnut puree in your liquidiser. Blend for 2-3 minutes until the puree is smooth and mousse like. If the puree is too thick, add hot stock 1 tbsp at a time. Season to taste
Get a shallow pan, add the onion and 1 tbsp of oil, cover and soften the onions for 6 minutes, then turn up the heat and fry them until golden for 4-5 minutes. Add the lentils, 200ml vegetable stock, chestnuts, rosemary and remaining pumpkin. Bring to the boil then take off the heat. Season to taste
Spread the lentil mixture into 2 small oven proof dishes. Spoon the puree into the centre of each. Use a spatula to gently smooth towards the edges a little. Don’t worry if the puree sinks into the lentils a little
Lay two sheets of filo pastry on your work surface. Sprinkle them with smoked paprika. Brush all over with olive oil
Scrunch the pastry up into the size of the dishes. Try and keep as much of the pastry as possible off the chickpea puree’s surface because the moisture will make it go soft
Brush and sprinkle two more sheets of pastry. Put a second sheet of filo on top of each pie to make doubly sure that it’s crisp. Bake for 12-15 minutes until hot and golden. Serve!
Method
In a large frying pan heat the oil on a medium heat. Once hot, add the onions, cook for 10-15 minutes until translucent. Add the garlic and mushrooms, cook for a further 5-10 minutes until the mushrooms are browned.
Add the squash, chestnuts, lentils, water, spinach, cranberries, sage, tomato puree, vermouth, salt, pepper, stock cube and yeast spread to the pan. Simmer for 20-30 minutes until the lentils are soft.
Heat your oven to 180c/360f/GM4. Roll the pastry out until it is thin. Cut 8 circles and place in small tart tins making sure the dough goes up the sides. Prick the bases with a fork. Bake for 8-10 minutes until the pastry has cooked and is starting to turn golden brown.
Divide the lentil mixture between the tart bases. Cut star shapes from the remaining dough and place on top of each tart. Brush a little milk on the pastry as a glaze. Bake for a further 10 minutes until the filling is cooked through and the star pastry is golden.
Method
Slice onion and saute until caramelised in a large saucepan over medium-high heat.
Finely chop garlic and add to the saucepan.
Once garlic is cooked, turn heat to low and and tomatoes, herbs, bay leaves and a pinch of salt and pepper.
Bring mixture to the boil, then simmer, covered, on a low heat for 10 minutes.
Remove the pan from the heat, remove bay leaves from the pan, and blend with a stick blender until smooth and creamy.
Taste the soup and add salt and pepper if needed.
For the cream, melt a few tablespoons of the solid part of the coconut milk in a frying pan, then add some to each bowl of soup.
Method
Preheat oven to 400F/204C.
In a large mixing bowl combine the vegetables and the oil; toss until vegetables are evenly coated.
Spread vegetables out evenly on a large baking tray. Roast for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until tender.
Add the cherry tomatoes.
Drizzle over a healthy coating of Jack Daniel’s® Smokey Sweet Glaze and finish off in the oven for 10 minutes.
Serve with a pot of Jack Daniel’s® Smokey Sweet Glaze to dip.
Method
Put the chickpeas, dates, peanut butter, cacao, coconut oil, vanilla and a generous pinch of sea salt into a food processor or high-speed blender. Blitz until you get a smooth mix. Now add the cacao nibs and hazelnuts, and pulse once to mix.
Line a 17 x 22cm baking tray with baking parchment then spoon the mix into the tray. Smooth out to the edges.
Gently melt the chocolate in a small bowl suspended over a small saucepan of boiling water.
Drizzle the melted chocolate over the mixture in the tray, then scatter with some chopped hazelnuts and sprinkle over a little salt. Refrigerate for at least 4 hours, or overnight, to firm up.
Remove from the tray and cut into squares. The bars are best kept in the fridge where they will keep for 3–4 days, or store in the freezer for up to a few weeks.
Tip: swap the peanut butter for almond butter and add a teaspoon of almond essence.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Cut the ciabatta in half and brush the cut sides with a little extra virgin olive oil. Heat a ridged grill pan or normal grill and toast the ciabatta until crisp and golden.
Rub the peeled garlic clove over the cut sides of the bread, tear the bread into rough chunks and set aside.
In a small bowl whisk together 5 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil, the crushed garlic clove and the red wine vinegar. Season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper and add the freshly chopped flatleaf parsley.
In a large bowl, mix together the bread and baby capers, plum tomatoes, sliced onion, cucumber, sliced celery, basil leaves, and black olives, and toss with the dressing. Season to taste.
Method
Place the slices of bread on a very hot griddle pan.
While the bread is toasting, thinly slice the courgette into strips.
When the bread has scorch lines on the other side, flip.
Mix the olive oil with the garlic powder and the oregano.
Remove the toasted bread from the pan, and add the courgette, after brushing the side that will face down with the olive oil mixture.
When the courgette is cooked, brush the top side with the mixture and flip.
When the courgette is fully cooked, top the toasted bread with it, before garnishing with coarse salt, pepper and chilli flakes.
Method
1. Chop finely the onion, celery and carrot
2. Place in a heavy casserole and add the olive oil, chilli and bay leaves.
3. Start frying slowly until all the vegetables are soft and golden brown.
4. Chop the mushrooms finely and add in to the soffritto together with the seitan and cook until all the water is evaporated.
5. Add the tomato and bring to boil.
6. Reduce the heat and simmer for 30-40 minutes until the sauce has thickened
7. Season with salt and pepper
8. Cook the pasta as per package instruction in salted boiling water
9. Drain and toss in the ragu
10. Sprinkle with freshly chopped parsley and serve immediately
Method
Preheat the oven to 200c
Grease a 12 cup muffin tray
Boil the parsnip for around 10 minutes until soft
Drain and leave to cool
Sauté the leeks in a little oil for 5 minutes
Put the parsnip into a large bowl, use a hand blender or potato masher to puree them
Add the leeks, pepper and salt, mix well
Grate the potatoes (skin on) add to the parsnip and mix
Taste to check seasoning
Divide the mixture between the cups in the muffin tray
Press your thumb into each so that the mixture goes up the side and there is a deep indent in the middle
Bake for 30 minutes until golden and crispy around the edges
For the cauli cheese steam or boil the cauliflower till it is just soft
Put the beans in a bowl with the nutritional yeast, garlic, salt and water, blend with a hand blender
Add the thyme and cauliflower, heat gently in a pan for 10 minutes
Now load the leek latkes with the cauliflower, sprinkle a few thyme leaves on top
Method
Chop the onion finely and fry in olive oil until translucent.
Chop mushrooms finely and add to onions.
When cooked, add tomato concentrate,yeast flakes and yeast extract. Stir well.
Add breadcrumbs and mix until combined – the mixture should be quite dry and form a ball.
Place in a well-greased and lined (small) loaf tin.
Cook at 400 degrees c, until the top begins to brown (approx. 20 minutes) then turn oven down to 350, and cook for another 20-25 minutes.
Turn loaf out of tin and slice.
Note: This is also really good the next day served cold, with salad.
Method
Make the socca batter by sifting the chickpea flour into a bowl. Combine with the water by hand-whisking (using a fork is fine) to ensure there are no lumps and it’s nice and bubbly. Set aside.
Place the chipotle chilli in a bowl with boiling water and set aside.
To make the salsa, chop the avocado, peaches and tomatoes into small chunks and combine in a bowl with the lime juice and finely chopped coriander.
Cut the lettuce into fine ribbons and place in a bowl.
Remove the chipotle chilli from the water and remove the seeds and membrane (if you don’t do this your mouth will be on fire!). Finely chop the rest.
Heat the olive oil in a frying pan while you chop the onion, garlic and tomato. Add these and the chipotle to the pan and cook until the onions become translucent – about 5 minutes. Add the cumin and paprika, give it a stir and then add the pinto beans. While this is cooking you can make the socca tacos.
Place a good, non-stick frying pan on a medium heat, adding a little oil if needed (see note). Once the pan is hot, spoon in some of the socca batter. I find a large serving spoon is about the right amount – making about 6 tortillas.
Wait for bubbles to appear in the batter. Once they have all popped, flip the tortilla over and allow the other side to cook – about 2 minutes on each side.
Pop them on a plate ready to serve.
The hot filling will also be ready by now, transfer this to a serving bowl.
I like to serve these by setting out all the dishes on the table for a DIY dinner – it’s much more fun!
NOTES: I recently acquired a ceramic frying pan which is perfect for this recipe. You can make pancakes – and everything else – without the need for a single drop of oil! If your pan is not super non-stick, use a little oil for the socca, as you would for regular pancakes. If you don’t want to be cooking the hot filling and the socca tortillas at the same time, make the tortillas first and set aside on a plate – they don’t need to be hot to serve. I’ve suggested using organic limes because not only do they taste great, but they are unwaxed (which is particularly important if you’re using the zest).
Method
Slice the apples, and place in a baking tray with fresh orange juice or water, spices, coconut sugar and salt. Mix well.
Bake at 350F/180C for about 15 minutes, remove from the oven and then add the berries.
Make the crumble by mixing the oats, coconut sugar, seeds and melted coconut oil.
Place the crumble on top of the fruit, and bake until the topping is golden – around 30 minutes.
Serve with soya or coconut ice cream.
Method
Press the tofu in paper towels to remove excess liquid.
Slice the tofu lengthwise in half, then widthwise into ½ inch thick pieces.
Heat the oil in a frying pan over medium heat, sauté the ginger and spring onions over medium heat for a minute and then add the tofu slices to the pan and cook on either side, sprinkling with shoyu sauce.
Season with a little more shoyu and then squeeze the ginger juice over the tofu.
Let everything sizzle for a minute or two.
Serve with a selection of sautéed vegetables of your choice.
Method
In a large saucepan heat a drizzle of olive oil.
Add onions and stir-fry for 1 minute.
Add sugar and balsamic vinegar to caramelise.
Remove and cool down.
Onions should still be firm.
Combine onion mixture with garlic, mustard, parsley and thyme.
Fry the burgers in a little oil on medium heat for 8 minutes.
Place patties on burger buns and top with onion mixture, sliced onion, tomato, lettuce, gherkin and tomato chutney or sweet & chilli sauce.
To make the butternut crisps, preheat oven to 200ºC.
Brush butternut slices with oil.
Bake for 20 mins, or until crispy.
Coat butternut crisps with fresh chilli (optional), sea salt and black pepper.
Preparation
Instructions:
Defrost the Pulled Oumph!, and then fry on a medium heat in a little vegetable oil.
Avocado cream:
Pit and peel the avocado and place in a bowl. Crush the garlic, grate the ginger and add to the mix. Lastly, add finely chopped chili, lemon juice, salt and black pepper to taste. Mix with a hand blender until it’s a smooth, creamy consistency.
Sriracha mayonnaise:
Place the mayo in a bowl and add sriracha, or other spicy chili hot sauce, to taste.
Build your own tacos with Pulled Oumph!, your favourite veggies, the avocado cream, mayonnaise and top with grated cheese. 
Boom! Taco time!
Method
Heat your oven to 180c/360f/GM4.
Put the squash on a baking tray, face down. Bake for 25-35 minutes until it is cooked through.
In a large saucepan heat the oil on a medium heat, once hot add the onions. Cook the onions for 10-15 minutes until they are translucent. Add the garlic, cook for a further 5 minutes then add the lentils, millet or quinoa, stock, kale, cranberries, herbs, salt and pepper. Cook on a low to medium heat for 25-30 minutes until the lentils are soft.
Scoop out the seeds and some flesh from the squash. You need to scoop out enough so there is space for the lentils. Spoon the lentils into the squash, add a little lemon juice, scatter with ground nuts or seeds and serve immediately.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Wearing rubber gloves, remove stems, seeds, and ribs from chili and chop finely.
In a bowl stir together chili and remaining salsa ingredients. Salsa may be made several hours ahead and chilled, covered.
Method
Wash the kale / rocket
Remove the centre stalk from the kale and shred
Wash tomatoes and pepper
Peel the carrot
Chop the bell peppers and beetroot
Toss this together with the kale/rocket leaves
Heat the kidney beans over a medium heat for a few minutes
Grate the carrot on top of the leaves
Drain the beans and add them to the salad
Top with almonds and sesame seeds
Garnish with cherry tomatoes
Dress with Caesar Salad Dressing
Method
1. Start with the sauces. For the Spicy Tomato Sauce: Place all the ingreients, except salt and vinegar, in a bowl. Mix with a hand mixer for 11-20 seconds. Add a pinch of salt and around 1-2 tsp of vinegar, to taste.
2. To make the Garlic Yogurt Drizzle: Mix the yogurt, oil and cumin in a bowl and add a little salt and a squeeze of lemon, to taste.
3. Fry the Oumph! Kebab Döner Style (defrosed or straight from the freezer) in a hot frying pan – but with no fat added. Stir for 2-3 minutes. Add the water and fry until the water has evaporated.
4. Toast the pita breads in a toaster or warm them in the oven. Fill the pita breads with Oumph! Kebab Döner Style and veggies and top with the Spicy Tomato Sauce and Garlic Yogurt Drizzle.
5. Serve with out without fries – the choice is yours! Enjoy!
Method
Trim the ends from the aubergine and cut into ½ inch chunks.  Place the oil, sea salt and caraway seeds into a bowl and mix together, add the aubergine and toss into the oil until well coated.  Leave to marinate.
Roughly chop the onion and finely grate the garlic and ginger.  Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan, add the onion, garlic and ginger and fry gently until the onion has begun to soften – about 20 minutes.  Add the spices to the pan and continue to fry for a further 3 minutes.  Add the lentils to the pan and stir together until coated.  Pour over the stock, cover and bring to the boil, then leave to simmer gently for 20 minutes (try not to stir) or until nearly all of the liquid has been absorbed.
While the lentils are cooking preheat the oven to 180c.  Tip the aubergine onto a baking tray and roast for 30-35 minutes until golden.
Take the lentils off the heat and then using a wooden spoon, beat vigorously until you have a smooth and creamy dhal.  Stir in the sea salt and lemon juice, then spoon into a serving dish.  Roughly chop the coriander, and scatter over the dhal along with the roasted aubergine before serving.
Loved this recipe? Check out these delicious vegan curry recipes or, if you’re feeling inspired, sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox. We’ll send you everything you need to try vegan for 31 days.
Method
Add all vegan feta cheese ingredients into a blender (no need to soak the cashews) and blend until you get a smooth cheese sauce.
Then pour it into a pan and heat up to high to medium heat. Stir continuously so it doesn’t burn. Slowly the sauce will turn into a thick paste. Once it has reached a paste-like consistency keep cooking for another 2-3 minutes as the starch needs to be fully cooked. If you don’t cook it long enough you might taste the starch.
Transfer the paste into a tupperware dish and even it out with a spoon. Keep it in the fridge for at least 2-3 hours (or in the freezer for 1.5+ hours) until it has set completely.
Then cut off slices and sauté the cooled down slices (don’t take it out fo the fridge hours before, it works best when they are cool) in a griddle pan on both sides until it turns crispy and you can see the burn marks.
Serve on a plate on top of a melon and add some capers as well. Garnish with either mint or rocket leaves. Drizzle some olive oil over it for some extra deliciousness (not necessary if you are looking to reduce calories). Enjoy!
— Exceedingly Vegan
Method
Add 2 tablespoons of olive oil in a pan over medium-high heat. Saute the onion for 3-4 minutes, then add the ginger and garlic and cook for 1 more minute. Add the spices, salt, tomato paste and coconut milk. Stir until smooth and combined, then simmer for 5-10 minutes, stirring frequently. Once finished, put this mixture to one side.
In another pan on medium heat, add some olive oil and cook the diced pepper until softened. Then, add the tin of butter beans, stir and leave for 1 more minute. Add the pack of tikka pieces, stir so all the ingredients are combined and turn down the heat to low.
Take your sauce and slowly start adding the mixture to the ingredients. Keep this on a low heat and slowly cook until the ingredients start bubbling.
We suggest serving with basmati rice, vegan naan and a sprinkle of chopped coriander for the ultimate curry experience!
Method
Wash the apples, remove the core and cut them lengthwise in fine slices.
Drizzle with a little lemon juice and mix in a bowl.
Top and tail the spring onions, wash them and cut into very fine slices.
Mix apples and onions in a salad bowl.
Mix yoghurt with agave syrup, salt and pepper, pour over the apple and onion mix and mix well.
Sprinkle with peanuts before serving.
Guten Appetit!
Method
Soak the saffron threads in a bowl of water and set off to the side.
If you are adding any vegetable protein heat some olive oil in a pan and fry the tempeh/seitan or tofu on either side for a few minutes until golden, remove and set aside.
In a large paella pan heat the olive oil and add the garlic, onion and tomatoes and sauté until soft.
Add the sweet peppers, green beans, and cover with the bouillon stock.
Add the tamari and leave to simmer at a low heat for 30 minutes or more until the vegetables are al dente, adding more water if necessary.
Add the rice one handful at a time along with the tempeh, seitan or tofu (if using), and then add the saffron threads and the soaking water, adding some more water if required.
Cover with some foil and simmer for half an hour until the rice is also soft to the bite.
Serve with lemon wedges on the side of the pan.
Method
Turn on the oven at 250º C.
In a pan, add the dry ingredients (except the salt) and the soya cream and mix well everything. Add the other liquid ingredients and mix again.
Heat at a medium temperature until it boils and gets thick. Do not forget to always stir it when cooking. Add the salt, mix it and put aside.
Cut the pastry into little rolls. Fold each of them and press into the walls of the small moulds. It must be as thin as you can, but without making holes on it.
Fill half of the moulds with the cream, lay them on a baking tray and oven bake for about 20 minutes or until the cream is dark.
Serve the “pastéis de nata” warm with a little cinnamon on the top.
Maria Aragão, author of the vegan recipes book “Omeletas sem Ovos”.
Method
Begin by cooking your chestnuts. Whilst your chestnuts are roasting, finely chop the onion and gently fry in a frying pan until translucent and just starting to caramelise.
Mince the garlic and slice the mushrooms and stir into the onion. Sweat on a medium heat until most of the water has been released from the mushrooms and they are just starting to brown. Then set the pan aside to cool.
In a food processor, blend the beans and chestnuts until they start to resemble breadcrumbs. If you like a little extra texture blend the chestnuts separately and leave them a little coarser.
Place the bean and chestnut mixer into a large mixing bowl.
Blend the mushrooms in the food processor and add to the mixing bowl along with the sage, and mushroom ketchup if using.
Mix together well and season to taste and set aside whilst you make the pastry.
Measure out the flour and marg into a large mixing bowl and chop into the marg with a knife until cut into fairly small chunks. Then rub the mixture together with your fingertips until it resembles fine breadcrumbs.
Add the water a bit at a time until the mixture comes together in your hands to form a ball.
Place the pastry covered in the fridge for 20 mins before rolling it out on a lightly floured surface into a large rectangle.
Mould the mushroom mixture into a loaf shape in the centre of your pastry length ways.
Brush the pastry edges with milk and carefully roll the whole thing, leaving the seam underneath.
Pinch the ends together and brush the whole thing with milk, make a few small cuts in the pastry for steam to escape then place onto a greased baking tray.
Bake in a pre-heated oven at 180C for 35-40 mins until golden brown.
Method
Heat the oil in a pan and saute the onion for a couple of minutes until it starts to soften. Add the garlic, ginger and chilli if using and stir for a minute.
In a small bowl add the cornflour and mix in 3tbsp of vegetable stock to make a smooth paste.
Add the remaining vegetable stock, vinegar, xylitol, tamari and tomato puree to the pan and bring to the boil. Turn down the heat, add the pineapple chunks and cornflour paste and simmer for a couple of minutes to thicken the sauce. Season to taste.
Method
Mix the sugar and agave nectar in the cup of water and stir until dissolved. Add this mixture to a blender (high speed if you have one) with the frozen raspberries. Blend until thoroughly combined.
Strain the mixture through a mesh sieve into a large bowl or another vessel that will be easy to pour. This will remove any crunchy raspberry seeds that may not have been blended. This is optional but recommended. It creates a much creamier, more pleasant texture.
After straining, return about one half of the mixture to the blender. Then add the yogurt and blend again until smooth. Pour back into the bowl with the rest of your raspberry puree, and add the Grand Marnier, too. Whisk until incorporated.
Follow the instructions on your ice cream maker for the rest. This batch went through mine for between 15-20 minutes.
Makes approximately 1 quart.
By Lizz Clements
Preparation
Peel and chop the onion, garlic and ginger. Chop the chilli.
Fry the chopped ingredients with the tomato purée and spices in the margarine.
Add the coconut cream, chopped tomatoes and 4 cardamom pods, crushed.
Bring to the boil and simmer for 10 minutes.
Season to taste with the juice of 1 lime and salt.
Add Oumph! and simmer for a further 7-10 minutes.
Dice the tomato and bell pepper and add them to the pan for the final 2 minutes.
Cook the basmati rice as stated on the packaging, but add a pair of crushed cardamom pods to the cooking water.
Chopped coriander is the finishing touch in “Tikka” – Namaste!
Enjoyed making this? Why not try more of our vegan curry recipes?
Preparation
Wrap the tofu in a clean cloth, place something flat on top of it, such as a chopping board. Add something heavy. Leave it to press for 1 hour. You can use a tofu press also.
Heat your oven to 200c.
Boil water in your kettle.
Method
Cut the tofu into bitesize squares and put it into a tupaware box. Add the tamari and sesame oil, put the lid on and rotate the box until the tofu is covered.
Place the tofu on a baking sheet and into the oven whilst you cook the rest of the dish.
Roughly chop the chilli and ginger. Blend these with the lime juice, dates and water.
Put the hot water from your kettle in a large frying pan on the hob. Bring to the boil and add the noodles. Once cooked drain and set aside, return the pan to the heat.
Add the oil and the veg, fry on a high heat, stirring occasionally. When the veg starts to char add the noodles, tofu and sauce. Add salt to taste.
Tear the top leaves from the bunch of coriander. There is no need to chop it with a knife. Add to the dish, stir well and serve.
Preparation
Start with the onions, saute over a low-medium heat in a teaspoon of oil or a splash of water until soft and lightly coloured.
Stir in the fennel seeds and vinegar and keep warm.
Meanwhile, pulse together the burger ingredients until it can clump together, it should still have texture and flecks of kale but be able to be formed into burger shapes. If the mixture seems to wet, add breadcrumbs or ground almonds a tablespoon at a time or if it seems too dry, add water a tablespoon at a time.
Make 6 burgers out of the mixture and grill with a little cooking spray until coloured, just a couple of minutes on each side. Alternatively use a cast iron pan or regular frying pan.
Serve in buns, topped with onions and your favourite garnishes.
Preparation
Blitz apricots, dates, pecan nuts, turmeric, cinnamon in a food processor until finely chopped.  
Add the Horlicks Vegan, coconut milk and melted coconut oil and blend until it comes together.  
Shape the mix into walnut-sized balls, roll some of the balls in chopped sunflower seeds, some in poppy seeds, some in crushed pecan nuts and some in desiccated coconut.  
Store in an airtight container until you need an energy uplift! 
Method
New Veganuary Recipe Video!
Chop the broccoli into florets
Add to cold water and bring to the boil
Once bubbling (show) drain and return to the pan
Add nutritional yeast and stir
Add the lemon juice and pepper. Stir.
Taste!
Add more nutritional yeast to make extra cheesy
Serve!
Try it with… Pasta, cauliflower, or even peas!
So simple, so cheesy, so delicious!
Method
Heat the oil or water in a soup pot over medium-high heat for just about 1 minute. Add the onions, carrots, celery, and garlic, and cook for about 10 minutes until all the veggies begin to soften. Stir occasionally.
Add the eggplant and water, and cook, covered, until the eggplant is slightly softened, about 10 minutes.
Add the canned tomatoes with their juice, potatoes, bell peppers, zucchini, bay leaves, thyme, oregano, parsley, and tarragon. Stir, then reduce heat to low and cook uncovered for about 25 minutes, stirring occasionally, until all the vegetables are soft. (If water/broth evaporates while the vegetables are still cooking, add a little extra.)
Stir in the salt and pepper, along with the chopped basil. Serve immediately with a hearty, rustic loaf of bread.
For Your Edification
Mirepoix is a mixture of chopped onions, carrots, and celery, and to reduce some prep time, you can often find pre-chopped mirepoix in such grocery stores as Trader Joe’s and Whole Foods (USA only).
For Your Modification
Add your favorite vegan Italian sausage, such as Field Roast or Tofurky, to the stew at the end. I think for maximum flavor and texture, you will want to slice the sausage(s) into discs, fry them in a little olive oil, then add them to the soup in the last 10 or 15 minutes of cooking.
Preparation
Serves 4 to 6 people
Method
Like any good dish, start by frying chopped onion and garlic in a large frying pan. Chuck in some salt, pepper and a hefty sprinkling of paprika; at least a tablespoon.
Add chopped chili pepper – your preference of chili. One whole chili should do the job; go for birds eye if you want a hot one, or one of the larger chili’s, which usually don’t pack quite as much heat. Also, including seeds make it hotter, so ditch them if you are a mega chili weed!
Add the mince once the onions, garlic and chili are soft
When the mince has browned add your beans. I can’t imagine a chilli without kidney beans, they are a must.
Next, add a tin of tomatoes. Also add some tomato puree – how much depends on how rich you want it. Leave it to simmer. The longer you simmer, the tastier it will be. At least half an hour should do the job.
Serve with rice, nachos, tacos or jacket potato. Delicious accompanied with guacamole and salsa!
Method
Makes 8 patties.
Preheat oven to 170 degrees
Wash sweet potatoes and cut into cubes, leaving the skin on.
Place into a steamer and steam until soft. This takes approximately 20 minutes.
Drain and rinse black beans, place in a large mixing bowl.
Add onion, coriander, sweet corn, paprika, garlic, cumin and chilli powder to the mixture.
When the sweet potatoes are ready place in a separate mixing bowl and mash with the back of a fork or a masher until creamy.
Add the black bean mixture and 1 cup of crushed tortilla chips to the sweet potato mixture and mix well.
On a separate plate/bowl pour ¼ cup of polenta flour ready to coat the patties.
Prepare the mixture into the patty size desired, roll in polenta flour until they are completely coated and set aside on a baking tray lined with nonstick baking paper.
Brush a small amount of oil onto each patty, place in the oven and bake for around 30-40 minutes, flipping them halfway. The longer you bake them the firmer and drier they will get.
Serve with your favourite filling.
Method
Melt coconut oil in a large non-stick pot.
Add the minced garlic and chopped red onion, brown for about 2 mins before adding the chopped celery, carrot and sweet potato. Cook for a further 2 mins before adding in the diced red pepper.
Add the herbs and spices, and mix for about 30 secs before adding in the stock, tomato purée black-eyed beans and black beans. Simmer for 20 mins.
Add the chopped black kale and cook for a further 4 mins. Add lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper. Stir in milled chia seeds or 1 tbsp protein powder (pea or soya bean derived work well) to thicken the sauce.
Serve with a garnish of chopped parsley
Optional: serve with a sprinkle of ground flaxseed to boost the nutrient content.
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Method
Prepare the ‘base’ of your buddha bowl. Braise onion (simmer in a small amount of water) for five minutes. Add grated ginger, continue on low heat for a further minute or two. 
Toss noodles in onion, ginger mix and set aside. 
To prepare miso marinade, combine miso paste, tamari, ginger and sesame oil in a small bowl, mix well. Coat tofu and eggplant in this mix and set aside.
Using a double-sided griddle, grill eggplant for 15 minutes (or until soft). Alternatively, you can bake eggplant however this will take longer (up to 30 minutes depending on how thickly the eggplant is sliced). 
Pan fry marinated tofu in heavy based pan, approximately 5 minutes each side. Set aside to cool. 
To prepare the dressing, mix ingredients in a high-speed blender, blend until smooth. 
Arrange noodles, vegetables, eggplant and tofu in a large bowl.  Generously drizzle with dressing. 
Preparation
1) Turn your oven on to a low heat
2) Begin by chopping your Potatoes into large chunks, ready for boiling
3) Place a large saucepan of water on to boil
4) Dice your onion and garlic. Leave half the garlic for your mushrooms and the other half for the beans.
5) Slice Mushrooms in half.
Method
1) When water is boiling – place your Potatoes in. Leave for approximately 15 minutes or until soft.
2) Meanwhile, heat your Sunflower Oil in a large Wok or frying pan. Add onion and half the garlic. Saute until brown.
3) Add the canned tomatoes, kidney beans, chickpeas, cumin and about 1/2 cup diced basil. Leave to simmer on a low heat. This should gradually thicken, so by the time you are ready to serve – you have a thick spicy bean mixture! Add salt and pepper to taste. Ideally this should have about 40 minutes to an hour to simmer and let the flavors marinate.
4) When your potatoes are cooked – drain out all the water and mash roughly with a masher or fork. Leave them nice and chunky and the skin on! Add your parsley, olive oil, lemon juice, rosemary, salt and pepper and continue to stir and combine all together.
5) Make small potato cakes with your hands and set aside.
6) Add a little bit of oil into a frying pan and fry off your potato cakes for a few minutes on both sides.
7) Once all are browned on both sides – pop them into the oven to stay warm until serving time.
8) In the same frying pan – add your sunflower oil, chopped garlic and mushrooms. Saute these over a medium heat until your mushrooms are cooked and nice and garlic-y. Add the spinach, rosemary and a sprinkling of salt and pepper closer to serving time.
9) About ten minutes before serving: halve your whole tomatoes and place them under the grill for a few minutes with a sprinkling of salt and pepper and a little drizzle of olive oil.
10) Flan your avocado by halving, removing the stone, scooping out each half with a spoon to separate from the skin and then slicing into a nice flan. Set aside.
11) Slice your Sourdough nice and thickly – you can optionally toast this and add some vegan butter or olive oil!
ASSEMBLE!!
Begin with your slice of sourdough and around it – arrange the potato cakes, spicy beans, mushrooms and spinach mixture, tomato and avocado. Finish your dish with a lovely spring of fresh rosemary.
Enjoy!
Preparation
Serves 4
Options
For those who prefer large quantities of garlic to be cooked, sauté the garlic in some of the olive oil first. Then just mix it in with the chopped vegetables, herbs and pasta as below.
Replace avocados with strips of roasted red pepper – home-made or in a jar. You will need at least half a large jar. Roasted peppers are sold either in brine or in oil. If the former, drain well and do not add extra salt to the dish. If they are in oil, omit most of the oil in the recipe.
Greener Pasta!
Boil a kettle of hot water, pour it into your saucepan, add the pasta and a little salt. Bring to the boil, then switch off the heat and cover the pan with a well-fitting lid. The pasta will continue to cook in the hot water – in the usual cooking time but without using extra fuel. Stir occasionally to prevent clumping.
Method
Cook the pasta in a large pan of salted boiling water according to the packet instructions – or see our Top Tip above.
While the pasta is cooking prepare the rest of the dish.
If you are cooking the garlic, do so now. Heat 2 tbsp of the oil in a small frying pan and fry it gently for a minute or two, making sure it does not burn. Remove from heat – keeping any remaining oil – and set aside.
If using the garlic raw, crush and set aside.
Peel the avocados. Remove the stones and chop into chunks.
Chop the tomatoes into chunks.
De-seed the chilli and chop fine.
Drain the pasta and mix in the prepared vegetables.
Add the remaining olive oil, lime zest/juice and basil leaves. Season well.
Serve immediately.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200c
Heat the water with the stock in a pan, once hot lower the heat
Finely chop the garlic and roughly slice the leek
In a large pan heat the oil, add the garlic and leek
Fry on a low to medium heat, this will take a while but the leek needs to be on a low heat as it burns easily
Once the leek is soft add the rice and mix well
Add the wine and mix well again
Allow the wine to reduce by half
Add the rosemary either whole or chopped finely, depending on your preference
Add the stock 1/2 a cup at a time, allowing it to be absorbed almost completely before adding the next
This process may take 30 minutes or so
Once the rice is cooked add salt to taste
Cut the top off the peppers and remove the seeds and the bitter membrane
Fill with the risotto, wrap each in foil and bake for 30 minutes
Toast the pine nuts and scatter on top
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Frozen berries are my secret smoothie weapon! So much cheaper and longer-lasting than buying fresh (for smoothie making). Plus they make the smoothie lovely and chilled, so it’s a win/win all round. You’ll find bags of these at any supermarket, and can get a mixed berry bag or entire bags of blueberries, raspberries etc. I love blueberries though as they’re delicious and full of antioxidants, including vitamin K.
Method
Put everything into a blender
Blend
Pour
Drink
You can add your ingredients to the blender in any order, but I typically go milk first to stop anything sticking to the sides. Alter the ingredients levels to suit your taste and desired thickness – the more berries you add the thicker it gets!
Method
If using bamboo skewers, pop them in water to soak to help prevent them burning
Chop the seitan into 1/2 inch thick pieces – don’t worry too much about uniformity
Chop the chillies and coriander leaves
Place the seitan, chillies, coriander, and ginger into a bowl
Add the liquid ingredients and sesame seeds
Mix well then leave to soak for 15-20 minutes
Place onto skewers in desired portions
Spoon any left over mixture over the skewers
Grill & eat!
Method
Slice the zucchini and vegan cheese, grill the slices for about 2 to 3 minutes in a hot grill pan on both sides till grill marks are showing and set aside. Also cut the fig in slices.
Cut the burger buns lengthwise and grill both cutting sides until grill marks are showing.
Grill the burgers according to the instructions on the package and place slices of the vegan cheese on it while the burgers are still warm.
Spread the bun bottoms with hummus. Cover with spinach and place the burgers with vegan cheese on it. Place fig slices on the vegan cheese and a few leaves of curly lettuce.
Spoon vegan yoghurt sauce on it, sprinkle with pomegranate seeds and place the lids on top ingredients and season with salt and lime juice.
For 7 vegan burger buns we will need: 1 pack of white bread mix (with yeast, 450 g), 300 g fresh spinach, 2 tblsp extra virgin oil , 275 ml of luke warm water, 1 tblsp coconut milk to brush, sesame seeds and / or poppyseed. Preheat the oven to 180 ºC.Cook (stir while cooking) the spinach short with a little water. Rinse under cold water in a colander and Grind into puree in a kitchen machine. Mix it into the bread mix and add water and olive oil. Knead and let rise according to the instructions on the package. Divide the dough into 7 equal pieces and roll into balls. Shape them into balls by rolling the dough under the hollow of your hands. Place them seam side down on a oil creased baking tray or on baking paper. Brush them lightly with coconut milk and sprinkle with sesame seeds and / or poppy seeds. Let them rise again to double volume and bake them for approx.15 minutes. They should sound hollow when tapped underneath.
Preparation
After struggling with undiagnosed chronic pain for months, Michaella Mazzoni turned to food for healing. Michaella’s kitchen is a food blog with recipes which are all refined sugar free. All the recipes are wholesome, healthy and easily replicated in reader’s homes without expensive equipment or hard to find ingredients. Michaella Mazzoni
Method
Preheat your oven to 180 degrees Celsius.
Line a baking tray with parchment paper and evenly spread out the oats. Place in the oven on the middle tray for about 5-7 minutes or until the oats become golden brown in colour.
While the oats are happily toasting away, start to chop the dates until they become a paste like consistency.
Roughly chop the pistachios.
Next, mix together the chopped dates with the agave syrup, seeds, pistachios and protein powder.
Lastly, stir in the toasted oats and the fresh lemon juice.
Roll the mixture together into balls and store in the fridge in an air tight container.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Prep Time: 15 Min,  Cook Time: 5 Min, Total Time: 20 Min
 Serves 2
Method
Marinate mushrooms for at least 10 minutes in soy sauce, chili powder, turmeric, and cumin.
Slice the bell peppers and onions.
Prep all the ingredients for the cilantro garlic sauce and throw into the blender.
Blend until smooth.
Cook bell peppers and onions in favorite high heat cooking oil, such as coconut oil for 1-2 minutes.
Add in the marinated mushrooms and cook for 3 minutes, or until the mushrooms are soft.
Throw in a splash of water when things start to get dry.
Notes: 1 minute before the mushrooms are done cooking, I add my flour tortilla on top and let it steam from my splash of water.
Raw Vegan Version
Marinate bell peppers, onion and mushrooms in marinade for at least 4 hours.
Dehydrate for 2-4 hours.
Wrap with a collard green or other raw wrap.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.
Cut the potatoes lengthwise into wedges and place into a roasting tray. Drizzle with the olive oil and season with a few grinds of salt and pepper. Place in the oven and bake for about 20 minutes.
Remove from oven and pour over ½ bottle of Jack Daniel’s® Full Flavour Smokey Barbecue Sauce. Gently toss in sauce to coat thoroughly the wedges.
Return to oven for about 15mins until potatoes are fully cooked and sauce has reduced and glazed the potatoes. Remove from baking tray and serve on a warm plate.
For the dipping sauce:
Pour half a bottle of your favourite Jack Daniel’s® Barbecue sauce into a pan and cook gently for around ten minutes until the sauce reduces down. Serve warm.
Method
Chop and sweat the vegetables and garlic with the sage and thyme.
Mix up stock, add the pea protein to the stock and give it a good mix before adding to the pot.
Add the tomatoes. Cook for a few minutes.
Add the beans and spinach.
Preparation
In a mixing bowl add your flour, pulsin powder, baking powder and matcha powder.
In another mixing bowl, combine your milk, maple syrup, banana and vanilla extract.
Slowly pour your wet ingredients into your dry until combined.
Let the mixture sit for a few minutes.
Heat a non stick pan over a medium heat and add a tablespoon of oil of choice.
Add a few spoonful’s of mixture (spread apart) into the pan and flip over after a couple of minutes. The trick is to drop your mixture into the pan from a height to get even pancakes.
Cook on the other side for a couple of minutes, and then empty onto plate and stack.
Top with creamy coconut yogurt and chopped figs.
Method
Just put all the ingredients in a blender and lets mix! It can’t get any easier than this!
Method
To make the pancakes mix together the flour, milk, baking powder, and cinnamon powder.
Once it is fully blended mix in the raisins with a spoon.
Ladle some of the mixture into a pre-heated non stick pan and cook on both sides until thy are cooked throughout.
If you want very large pancakes cook the mixture half at a time and if you want smaller ones cook a quarter of the mixture per pancake.
For the mango dip, simply cut the skin off a mango and cut away the core then add the left over fruit to a blender.
Blend until it has become a purée and serve with or on the pancakes.
Serves: 2 (2 large pancakes or 4 smaller ones)
Method
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Cut each potato into 8 equal-sized wedges and place in a large mixing bowl. Add the seasoning and lemon juice and give it all a good stir so that each wedge is coated.
Line a tray with parchment paper and arrange the wedges skin-side down.
Place on the middle shelf of the oven and cook for 40-50 minutes, turning once. If you think they are browning too much towards the end but not yet cooked through, cover with foil.
While the wedges are cooking, make the Salsa Verde. Place all the ingredients in a food processor and roughly blitz until you have a consistency you are happy with (I prefer it to not be over-processed).
If you don’t have a food processor, finely chop the ingredients and blend in a pestle and mortar. If it looks too dry add a little olive oil or extra lemon juice.
Method
Bring the soya milk to a boil over a medium heat.
Once boiling, remove from the heat and whisk in the the agar powder (or agar flakes or carrageenan), vinegar and salt.
Mix the tapioca starch in a cup with a few tablespoons of the hot soya milk and set aside.
Bring the soya milk mixture to a boil again, then whisk in the rest of the ingredients, including the tapioca mixture.
Cook for 10 or so minutes, make sure it comes to a boil at least once, then remove from heat and stir in the probiotic of using then pour into a container to set.
Leave to harden in the fridge or freezer to make it easier to grate.
Method
Serves 4.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a heavy-bottomed pan and cook 1 sliced onion until soft.
Stir in 2 tablespoons white wine vinegar, 2 teaspoons sugar, 1 tablespoon sambal oelek (Indonesian chilli sauce) and 6 tablespoons chopped tomatoes and mix well.
Add 750g shredded Chinese cabbage and salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Cook for 10 minutes with the lid on, stirring occasionally, until the cabbage is tender.
Serve hot with 2–3 spring onions and 1 shredded red chilli sprinkled over the top.
Method
Pre-heat the oven the 180 degrees celsius.
Sift the flour, baking powder and bicarb into a large bowl. Gently stir through the caster sugar.
Peel and boil the beetroot for around an hour and then puree in a blender. Whisk together with the golden syrup and balsamic.
Melt the chocolate in a double broiler and add to puree – stir until smooth.
Make a well in the centre of the flour mixture and add the wet ingredients. Gently fold and transfer to a lined cake tin. Bake for 30-35 mins or until a skewer comes out clean.
Allow the cake to cool completely before frosting – to make the cake completely even and suitable for the raspberry topping, slice off the top with a serrated knife.
Mix the icing sugar, cocoa powder and vanilla extract together before adding some water a tablespoon at a time (approx. 50-75ml or until it reaches the desired consistency), and beat with a spatula until thick and smooth. Spread over the whole cake using a palette knife.
Muddle the raspberries, leaving a few whole before stirring through the icing sugar. Just before serving top the cake with the raspberry mixture and slice.
Method
Heat the oil in a pan and add the onion, stirring until softened.
Add in the sliced peppers and Fry’s Chicken-style Strips.
Sprinkle over the fajita spice mix and stir fry until the peppers are cooked and the Chicken-style strips are golden.
Warm your tortillas, either in the microwave for 30 seconds, or wrapped in foil in a hot oven for 10 minutes.
Stack your warmed tortillas with lettuce and the fajita filling. Wrap, and eat!
A little extra:
Add salsa or guacamole to your wraps to make it saucy.
Make it a feast:
Serve with Tex-Mex sides like nachos, wedges, or Mexican-style rice for an even bigger meal.
Did you like these vegan chicken fajitas? Explore more vegan BBQ recipes!
Method
In a bowl add the marinade ingredients and mix together. Chop the tempeh into cubes and add it to the marinade and coat well. Leave aside ready to cook.
In a mixed add the Thai sauce ingredients with a little water and mix until you get a nice smooth runny consistency. Adjust tamari or maple syrup to your taste
Add water to a pan and heat until boiling. Add the noodles and cook until al dente (drain and pour over cold water to stop them from continuing to cook) coat with a little sesame oil to stop them from sticking together
In a pan add the tempeh and cook until nicely browned on all side, remove from the pan and set aside. Then add the noodles to the pan with a little sesame oil and a dash of tamari and cook until gently warmed through.
Add a little of the noodles to each lettuce boat, topped with the tempeh, some chopped avocado, red cabbage and drizzle with the Thai sauce and some black sesame seeds.
Feel free to squeeze over some more lime juice for added zing.
Did you like this dish? Explore more healthy vegan recipes.
Method
1. Make the marinade by putting all the ingredients into a dish and mixing well. Set aside.
2. Peel, top and tail the carrots, then slice long thin strips from them using a vegetable peeler.
3. Steam them over a pan of boiling water for 4 mins.
4. Immediately put them into the marinade and mix well. Cover and refrigerate overnight
5. Drain the oil from them and serve on a bagel with vegan cream cheese and chopped dill and capers.
Method
Arrange all the ingredients so that they are easy to access. The rice paper rolls are very delicate, and get sticky when drying. I have found that the quicker you make the rolls, and the less you handle them you lower the chances of them breaking up. Having said that, do not worry if the paper rips. Just try and minimize the damage, they become much more solid after 15minutes or so. And they taste so good no one will notice the small tears trust me!
Place one sheet of rice paper into a bowl of warm water. Leave for approximately 30seconds or until the sheet becomes malleable.
Take the rice paper out of the bowl and place on a clean plate. Add a small amount of each ingredient, making sure no hard bits are sticking out that could damage the paper.
Now it is time to roll. Fold in 2 opposing sides of the rice paper as tightly as possible. Then take the third side and fold over, making sure it is tight and roll it over the fourth side to completely seal the summer roll.
For the dipping sauce mix the ingredients in a small bowl.
Method
1. Rinse and drain the sushi rice in a sieve. Place the rice in a small saucepan with 220ml of water, bring up to a boil, lower the heat to a gentle simmer, cover and cook for 15 minutes until all the water has been absorbed.
2. Drain and wrap the tofu in kitchen paper then place between two plates with something heavy on top like a couple of tins. Leave to press for 20 minutes. This process allows the tofu to take on more flavour.
3. Preheat the oven to 190 degrees celsius.
4. Prepare the peanut sauce. Mix the peanut butter with 1 tbsp of soy sauce, 1.5 tbsp of mirin, 1 tsp of sesame oil and 1 tbsp of water. Peel and finely chop or grate the garlic, then add to the sauce. Your sauce should be the consistency of single cream. If necessary add a splash more of water to loosen.
5. Prepare the filling. Cut the avocado in half, remove the pit and scoop the flesh away from the skin, keeping the shape intact. Cut the avocado into strips lengthways. Peel and grate the carrot. Divide both into 4 equal portions. Cut the tofu into 8 slices and coat with 1 tsp of soy sauce. Place the coated tofu on a tray and bake in the oven for 8 minutes.
6. Toast the sesame seeds in a dry frying pan over a high heat for 1 minute or until golden, then tip onto a small plate.
7. Cool the rice. When the rice is cooked, take it off the heat and mix in 1.5 tbsp of rice wine vinegar, ½ a tsp of salt, ½ a tsp of sugar and most of the toasted sesame seeds, saving a sprinkle for garnishing. Spread the rice onto a plate and leave to cool, then divide into 4 equal portions.
8. After 8 minutes, take the tofu out of the oven and coat with half of the peanut sauce. Bake for another 10 minutes then remove from the oven and slice each strip in half lengthways.
9. Start rolling! Place a small bowl of water nearby. Lay 2 layers of clingfilm larger than the nori sheet over your clean chopping board. Place the nori on top of the clingfilm in portrait orientation. Using your hands, take one portion of rice and spread it evenly onto the half of the nori sheet closest to you, leaving a 1cm gap at the edge of the sheet. Wet your fingertips to stop the rice sticking to your hands.
10. Place your strips of tofu with a portion of avocado and carrots horizontally in the centre of the rice. Drizzle a little of the peanut sauce over the filling, then start rolling the sushi by placing your thumbs underneath the clingfilm and lifting the edge that is closest to you up and over the filling in the centre. Curve the rest of your fingers over the clingfilm and gently press against the length of the roll, squeezing the rice and filling together inside. Continue to roll the sushi away from you until you’ve rolled past the furthest edge of the nori sheet. You may need to use a little water to seal the edge. Repeat until you get 4 sushi rolls.
11. Use a sharp knife to cut each roll in half, then each half into 3 equal pieces. Rinse under the tap between slices to help get a clean cut. Garnish the sushi rolls with a sprinkling of the reserved sesame seeds and serve with the remaining soy sauce for dipping.
Top Tip: if you have a bamboo sushi mat, use it instead of this clingfilm method.
Preparation
At least an hour before you start cooking, prepare the marinade by combining all the ingredients in a food processor and blending until combined.
Cut the tofu into 1cm pieces, place in a container and cover with the marinade. Leave in the fridge until required.
Thinly slice and de-seed the pepper, slice the carrot into thin batons, chop the coriander (leaves and stems) and slice the spring onions. Put these in a large bowl with the beansprouts, black sesame seeds and the remaining squeeze of lime.
Thinly slice the onion and cut the broccoli lengthways to have even thinner stems.
Method
Heat a large frying pan on the hob to a medium temperature. Toast the pecans until they begin to turn brown, add in the desiccated coconut and continue to toast until this turns brown too. Remove immediately and put aside in a bowl.
Add the coconut oil to the pan and mince the garlic into it, then add the onion. Cook for a few minutes until they begin to soften and brown.
Add in the tofu, with the marinade, and give it all a good stir. After a couple of minutes, I like to spoon some of the marinade out into the bowl with the raw ingredients, so that they’re nicely coated in all of the lovely flavours.
Add the broccoli to the pan and cook until wilted, and most of the marinade has been soaked up.
Remove from the heat, stir into the large bowl with the salad, and serve with a sprinkling of the toasted pecans and coconut.
NOTES
If you are unable to find tenderstem broccoli, regular broccoli, green beans or pak choi will also work really well.
Preparation
Try our homemade chocolate spread!
Method
Put butter and sunflower oil in a bowl and whisk until the butter becomes creamy. Add sugar, cognac and rosewater, and mix well. Add all purpose flour, corn flour, baking powder. (If you want almonds in your kourabiedes, process 1-2 cups of almonds in a food processor and add the ground almonds in the bowl.) Mix all ingredients well using your hands.
Roll the dough on a floured surface and use your favourite cookie cutters to cut the dough, or give them a half-moon shape (traditional shape), roll into small balls, or shape into regular-sized round cookies. If you are not using ground almonds in the dough, or even if you are, you can stuff a whole almond in the middle of your cookie.
Bake in a preheated oven on a greaseproof paper at 180C for 30 minutes or until they get a lightly brown colour.
Let them cool for approximately 15 minutes. You can stick kourampiedes together using chocolate spread. Garnish your kourabiedes with confectioner’s sugar.
Preparation
To make the whip:
Add all ingredients marked with (*) to a blender and cream until very smooth.
Refrigerate at least two hours before serving.
Method
Preheat oven to 200ºC / 400ºF / Gas Mark 6
Combine rhubarb, ¾ cup [187.5ml] apple juice, rice malt and cinnamon in a saucepan. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer 5 minutes.
Dissolve kuzu in remaining ¼ cup [62.5ml]  juice. Add to the rhubarb and cook for 3 minutes.
Remove pan from heat, cool slightly, and add strawberries.
Pour fruit into an 8×8” (20cm) glass baking dish and set aside.
Combine oats, nut flour, cinnamon, salt and maple sugar in a mixing bowl. Add oil and mix thoroughly.
Sprinkle the crisp topping over the fruit. Bake for 20 minutes, or until golden brown.
Serve warm or at room temperature.
Method
1. Preheat oven to 200°C (400°F). To make the parmesan crisps, place the parmesan and chia in a bowl and toss to combine. Place 10 mounds of the parmesan on 2 large lightly greased oven trays lined with non-stick baking paper and flatten slightly. Cook for 8–10 minutes or until golden, set aside.
2. To make tofu dressing, place the tofu, mustard, capers, lemon juice, water and pepper in a small bowl. Using a hand-held blender, blend until smooth.
3. Blanch the French beans for 2 minutes in boiling water, refresh and drain.
4. Place the Garden Gourmet Breaded Fillets on a lined backing tray with greaseproof paper and bake at 180°C from frozen for 12-15 minutes and then cut into strips at a 45-degree angle.
5. To serve, divide the lettuce and spinach onto 10 bowls, add the breaded fillet strips, French beans, crumble over the parmesan crisps and drizzle each bowl with the dressing. Season with freshly ground cracked black pepper.
Chef’s tip: The parmesan crisps can be made in advance and stored in an airtight container.
Method
Heat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
Drain the tofu, wrap it in kitchen paper to soak up any residual water and slice it into small chunks (no smaller than 1cm).
In a baking dish, mix the minced garlic, chopped chilli, turmeric, paprika, soy sauce, red wine vinegar and a squeeze of the lime juice. Cover and set aside. Add the tofu and mix, carefully, until all the pieces are covered with the marinade.
Line a baking tray with a sheet of parchment paper or foil and slice each potato in half. Arrange the potatoes on the tray, skin-side down. Squeeze over some of the lime juice (this helps the dry seasoning to stick) and then sprinkle on 1tsp each of the sumac and oregano.
Line a second tray with parchment paper or foil and slice two of the tomatoes into eight segments each. Slice one of the plums or peaches into eight segments. Arrange these, skin-side down, on the tray.
Place both trays in the oven, the potatoes on a higher shelf, and cook for 20-25 minutes.
While the potatoes are cooking, cut the remaining tomatoes and plum/peach into bite-size pieces, thinly slice the onion and pepper, and chop up the olives and basil. I like to include the basil stalks too, they’re full of flavour. Combine all of these in a salad bowl with a squeeze of lime and some black pepper.
Cut the green beans into 1 inch pieces and steam or boil for about 5 minutes. Rinse under cold water, drain, and add them to the salad bowl.
Remove the potatoes from the oven and turn each one over. Squeeze over the rest of the lime and a further 1tsp each of the sumac, chilli flakes and oregano. Return to the oven for 20 minutes.
Add the oil to the tofu and put this in the oven, too. Cook for 15 minutes, give it all a stir and return to the oven for a further 10 minutes. It will be ready when all of the marinade has cooked off and the tofu is slightly crispy.
Remove all of the oven-cooked components and leave to cool for 5 minutes.
To assemble, carefully combine all of the ingredients and then pile them into individual serving dishes, topping with a nice spoonful of peanut butter!
Method
Fry the onions in a pan with some of the olive oil. After a few minutes, add the chillies and garlic.
Once the onions, chillies, and garlic start to brown, add the beans.
Add the chopped basil and stir well, then add in the tomatoes. Season.
Add half the water, before bringing to the boil then turning down to simmer.
Keep on a low heat, stirring occasionally, topping up with water when needed, until the beans are cooked through.
Spray or drizzle the bread with olive oil then grill until crisp. Load the beans on top, season again if you wish, and garnish with any remaining basil.
If you enjoyed this dish, check out more delicious vegan breakfast recipes.
Preparation
Equipment:
Oven on 180c
Measuring cups and spoons
Food processor or sharp knife and cutting board
Large mixing bowl
Wooden spoon
Small pan
Grater
Large baking tray (mine is 10″ x 15″) lined with baking parchment
Airtight container
Method
Place the oats, buckwheat, pecan pieces, almonds, seeds, raisins, ginger, cinnamon and ground flax into a large mixing bowl.
Gently heat the coconut oil and maple syrup in a small pan until the oil is runny.
Add the oil and maple syrup to the bowl of dry ingredients and mix thoroughly.
Transfer the mixture to a large baking tray, spreading it evenly.
Bake in the oven at 180c for 25-35 minutes and stir the mixture frequently.
Remove from oven and let it cool before serving.
Enjoy it with dairy-free yoghurt, plant milk or just as it is!
Store in an airtight container for future use.
Did you like this recipe? Check out our easy peasy vegan muesli too.
Preparation
* Potato Sticks  – I bought mine from Tesco. Alternatively you can cut fresh potatoes into very small and thin pieces and fry them for about 2-3 minutes (you don’t want them too crispy but more on the soggy side)
Method
Prepare the “eggs”: In a food processor blend the tofu with the milk and season with turmeric, salt, pepper. Blend until it’s a smooth and egg-like mix.
Cut the chicken strips into smaller chunks and chop the onion into thin slices.
Now in a pan heat the olive oil and the onion, and allow to cook until the onion has golden. Then add the chicken chunks and season with black pepper & cayenne pepper; let it cook for some minutes on medium heat. Cover with the potato sticks straight from the package and pour the tofu mix on top of it all.
With a wooden spoon carefully blend everything together and cook for an additional 3-4 minutes to cook the tofu.
Sprinkle with fresh cut parsley and serve.
Decorate with olives (optional)
Method
Peel the sweet potatoes and red onion and cut roughly. Place these into a blender or food processor along with the ground flaxseed and blitz to form coarse pieces. (this will give the falafels some texture).
Pour contents into a bowl. Stir in the crushed garlic cloves.
Put the drained cooked chickpeas, sundried tomatoes, chillies, tahini, lemon juice & protein powder into the blender or food processor (no need to wash from the sweet potato mixture), and whizz well to form a stiff paste.
Combine the sweet potato mixture and chick pea mixture together. Stir in the chopped herbs of choice. Season well with salt and pepper.
Shape into balls using your hands and then flatten into patties. Chill for at least 20 mins before pan-frying in coconut oil for 8 mins on each side.
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Wash and drain the chickpeas and pour into a good-sized bowl
Add all other veggie ingredients to the bowl and mix well
Add a good squirt of mayo and mix. You may wish to add more after mixing – it really is a case of personal taste
Add a couple of shakes of the plum seasoning, and salt and pepper to taste
Mix well
Serve on its own, or between slices of crusty bread or sliced bread toast… Add lettuce or rocket, tomato, or even a slice of cheese if you feel like it!
Like this recipe? Sign up to try Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Yes, you can buy vegan parmesan, but making your own is so much better! Especially when you amp up the tang for an extra-special taste sensation.
Method
Place all the ingredients in a food processor and blitz until you have a powdery consistency – this should take seconds.
Be careful not to over-process, as it will start to turn into almond butter.
Store in a sterilised jar and keep in the fridge.
Method
Blend (using a hand blender) the beans, garlic, lemon juice, cumin and tahini till smooth. Add salt to taste
Pour into a serving dish
Scatter with spring onion and chives
Method
First make the pancake dough. In a large bowl, knead the flour, salt and water until you have a smooth, elastic dough, about 5 minutes, adding a teaspoon more flour if it seems too sticky. Wrap the dough in plastic wrap and leave to rest for about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 200°C. Place the shredded jackfruit in a loaf tin. Whisk together the sesame oil, ginger, wine, five spice, black pepper and soy sauce and pour over the jackfruit. Roast for 15–20 minutes or until very tender – there may still be liquid in the tin, and that’s okay.
Unwrap the dough, roll it into a log and divide into 12.
Roll each piece of dough into a ball, then flatten slightly by patting it with the palm of your hand. Brush a thin layer of oil over six of the flattened dough balls, then place the unoiled dough balls on top of them to form sandwiches. Use a rolling pin to roll out each sandwich into a flat pancake, flipping it midway so both sides are rolled evenly.
Set a dry non-stick frying pan over medium heat, place a pancake in it and cook until it is puffy and the bottom is flecked with brown, about 2–3 minutes. Flip it over and cook the other side for 2–3 minutes, then remove. Carefully separate the two layers to give you two pancakes. Keep on a plate, covered with a clean tea towel, while you cook the rest, separating them as well, to give you twelve in total.
Transfer the jackfruit to a serving platter. To eat, scoop a little bit of jackfruit onto a pancake, top with a drizzle of hoisin sauce and a few slivers of carrot, cucumber and spring onion, then wrap up and enjoy.
Preparing jackfruit
After draining your tin of young green jackfruit, rinse it well in a sieve under cold running water – this helps to get rid of the slightly sweet jackfruit flavour. After rinsing, cut away the tough core of each piece of jackfruit, then shred the remaining flesh into something resembling pulled pork. Discard all the seeds and seed pods.
Credit for the recipe and image: Jackfruit and Blue Ginger by Sasha Gill (Murdoch Books)
Preparation
Brush slices of the bread with a little extra virgin olive oil and toast lightly.
In a bowl, mash up the avocado with a little salt + pepper and mix in some of the chilli.
Spread the avocado mixture onto the toasted bread and top with a generous spoonful of the pesto.
Garnish with the rest of the chilli and the coriander leaves.
Preparation
I like to use the outer leaves of an iceberg lettuce to wrap round the burgers, acting as a crisp bun.  That way you can add the salsa and perhaps a little hummus to make a real feast of it. It’s really important that you grate the carrot and courgette by hand as using a food processor can make them very soggy.
Makes 10 burgers       
Method
Place the tomatoes in a bowl and pour over boiling water, leave for 1 minute, drain the water off and gently remove the skin by peeling it off with a small sharp knife. Cut the tomatoes in half and using a teaspoon, scoop out the seeds and discard. Set the remaining tomato flesh aside.
Finely dice the onion, deseed the chilli and chop very finely.  Slice the avocado in half, remove the stone and then using a spoon scoop out the flesh in one half and then finely chop.  Slice the tomato flesh and yellow pepper into very small juice and then combine all of the ingredients into a bowl.  Pour over the lime juice, finely chop the coriander and stir through.  Season to taste, cover and leave to stand in the fridge until ready to use.
Finely chop the onion and crush the garlic.  Trim the ends from the courgette and carrots and then coarsely grate using a hand held grater.  Finely chop the coriander and set aside.  Heat 1 tablespoon of the olive oil in a large frying pan and add the onion, fry gently for around 5 minutes or until softened and slightly coloured at the edges.  Add the garlic, courgettes and carrots to the pan, turn up the heat to medium – high and fry for a further 5 minutes, stirring regularly, until the carrots and courgettes have softened and cooked through.
Add the peanut butter and harissa to the pan, season well and continue to cook for 3 minutes, stirring regularly, until blended with the vegetables.  Take off the heat and leave to stand for five minutes or until cool enough to handle.  Meanwhile, drain and rinse the kidney beans and place them in a food processor.  Blitz until you have a smooth paste and then transfer to a large mixing bowl.  Alternatively, you can place the kidney beans into the mixing bowl and mash by hand, using a fork, until you have a thick paste.
Add the cooked rice, coriander and vegetable mixture to the beans and beat together until combined and pulled into a large ball.  Take a handful of the mixture – about 3 tablespoons worth – and shape into a patty approximately 2 inches in diameter and 1 inch thick.  Scatter the sesame seeds over a flat plate, season and mix together before lightly rolling the burgers in them so that they are evenly coated.  Cover the burgers in clingfilm and refrigerate for 1 hour before cooking.
When ready to cook, heat the remaining olive oil in a large frying pan and cook for about 10 minutes, turning over once or twice, until golden brown and cooked through.
Preparation
Wash the Korean mint leaves and remove any excess water.
Cut the mint leaves vertically into 0.3cm strips.
Parboil the tofu in boiling salt water, then rinse in cold water. Gently “mash” or crumble the tofu into small pieces with your hands. To remove excess water, wrap the mashed tofu into a layer of hemp cloth and wring it, squeezing out the water.
Next, prepare a batter using the flour, red chilli paste and bean paste, adding water until it achieves the desired consistency. The ingredients should be fully combined but still thick, not pourable.
Add the Korean mint leaves and tofu to the batter.
Shape the batter into 5cm pancakes (about 1cm thick) and fry in the oil until cooked. Flip them over to cook on both sides.
Method
Line a 12 cup muffin tray with baking paper circles. Grease the sides with melted coconut oil. I actually use a 12 cup muffin tray that has loose bottoms!
Preheat oven to 160C (325F).
Process walnuts to a coarse meal.
Mix together all oatmeal cookie ingredients.
Divide mixture amongst prepared muffin tray cavities; approx. 1.5 tbsp.
Press down to evenly distribute in each and then make an indent in the middle of each allowing it to come up the sides a little.
Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes. Remove and gently press down the centres before they cool. Allow to cool in the tray for 15 minutes before removing and place on a wire rack.
Meanwhile mix together coconut sugar, vanilla, salt and coconut milk. Bring to the boil and stir continuously until the sugar has dissolved…about 2-3 minutes.
Add in the coconut oil, bring back the boil and once again stir continuously this time over a medium to high heat for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and allow to cool for one hour.
Place baked cookie cups onto a tray lined with baking paper.
Place 1-1.5 tsp of the caramel into the centre of each baked cup. Place them into the fridge for 30 minutes.
Melt the chocolate or to make your own homemade chocolate, mix the melted cacao butter with the cacao powder and maple syrup. Sweeten to your own taste.
Pour 1 generous tsp of the melted chocolate or homemade chocolate over the top of each cookie cup just covering the caramel. Place in the fridge to firm up for 30 minutes. Store in the fridge and remove 10-15 minutes before serving for a softer caramel.
Preparation
Makes about nine rissoles.
Method
Add the dry mixture to the wet mixture and stir well with a spoon. Knead a little with your hand until everything is well mixed, but don’t knead too long, otherwise you’ll squish the onions out of the dough. Cover the bowl with a warm, moist towel and let it rest for about 30 minutes.
Heat more neutral oil in a non-stick frying pan to medium heat. Form 9-10 meatballs and place them in the pan. They should not be crowded, I fry them in two batches.
It’s important not to fry them like you’re frying meat: they need to fry slowly on low to medium temperature (I use grade 3 of 6) for about 30 minutes. Flip them repeatedly after about 8 minutes to let them brown evenly. They stay soft for a long time and don’t start to brown till the end. After about 30 minutes they should be done, you can take them out when they have the desired colour.
Like most seitan ‘meats’ they’re best after cooling completely. Fresh out of the pan the crust is a little hard, it will soften after cooling while the inside gets firmer. They’re perfect after a night in the fridge. You can reheat them in a pan or in hot gravy. I serve them the traditional way, with mashed potatoes, roasted onions in a puddle of frying oil and lots of mustard.
Guten Appetit!
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Use the spiraliser & courgettes to create your “courgetti”
Boil the courgetti for 20 seconds, drain and stir-in the Pesto
http://www.sacla.co.uk/recipes/ for more recipe inspiration from Sacla.
Method
Roll out or take out the pastry and slice into sections. Cut into long strips of around 10cm in width.
Make up the sausage mix as per the packet and place spoonfuls on the mix in a line, just off centre, on each strip of pastry. Don’t over fill, as you’ll have trouble closing up the pastry.
Fold the pastry over the top of the sausage mix, pressing shut the two edges with a fork. You can prick the pastry in top for some decoration too if you fancy.
Cut into around 8cm individual bites. It doesn’t have to be precise but just make sure they aren’t too small as you’ll end up with sausage bullets!
Cook on a baking tray for around 25 mins, or until golden brown. Make sure you give each one a little room as they don’t cook through and rise properly if they are squashed together.
They are most delicious eaten warm.
Method
1. In a large mixing bowl add the normal couscous together with 1 tbsp olive oil a pinch of salt 2 tbsp of ras el hanout spice mix and toss well. Now add boiling water just enough to cover the couscous, quickly cover the bowl with plastic wrap or a plate. After 8 minutes uncover and separate the couscous with a fork.
2. In a sauce pan add the giant couscous, toast it on low heat for a couple of minutes. Cover with water add one tbsp of ras el hanout spices a tsp salt and bring to boil. Once is boiling lower the flame and cook for about 10 minutes or until the couscous is tender, drain and combine with the normal couscous. Add the chopped herbs to the cous cous, toss well. Set aside.
3. In a skillet pan add 2 tbsp olive oil, when warm add the chopped vegetables and cook for 10-15 minutes. Finally add the meatballs and carry on cooking for 10-15 minutes until the meatballs are fully cooked.
4. To make the salsa add the drained pepper to a food processor together with the yogurt, tahini, salt, pepper and olive oil, blitz.
5. In a large serving dish spread the sauce evenly, add the couscous mix and finish with the meatballs and vegetables on top, scatter more fresh herbs and the pomegranate seeds. Enjoy!
Method
Cut the mushrooms down to bite-size but quite large chunks and then toss them in a little oil.
Bake for around 20 mins until they are cooked and importantly – chewy. They will reduce in size in the oven so don’t make them too small. You can use any type of mushroom.
Slice the nori into shreds and then soak in hot water for 5 minutes or so. If the sheet isn’t that salty, you can add your own.
Whilst the nori is soaking, cut up a small, white onion and soften in a pan with some more oil. Once softened, add a couple of garlic cloves before adding the nori and the water it soaked in.
Add the mushrooms to the pan and a splash of soya milk (or cream if you are using) and stir until all is combined and lovely looking. You might want to add a bit more water depending on how dry or not you want the dish.
Serve and enjoy!
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan seafood recipes.
Method
Place the nori sheet on your cutting board and spread the rice evenly across the centre.
Place the fillings on top of the rice and sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds.
Fold each side of the nori to the centre (like you are wrapping a parcel).
Wet your fingers and coat one side of the nori. Press down and cut into 4 slices.
Delicious served with natural soya sauce for dipping and a bowl of miso soup on the side.
Method
Preheat your oven to 400F.
Slice carrots into thin strips using either a mandolin or food processor to keep them uniform.
In a small bowl, whisk together broth, liquid aminos or the soy sauce, olive oil, liquid smoke, and smoked paprika. Then, in a shallow dish, toss sliced carrots with broth combination until carrots are completely coated.
Arrange carrot slices on a foil-wrapped baking sheet so that they don’t overlap. Bake in the oven for 7 minutes. Pull baking sheet from the oven and flip carrots. Put baking sheet back in the oven to bake for another 7-8 minutes. It might take more or less time depending on how thick or thin you sliced your carrots.
You’ll know your carrot bacon is done when the edges are crispy and the center of each slice looks dry.
Move carrot bacon to a plate with a paper towel to soak up any extra oil. Salt and pepper to taste.
Let cool to room temperature before crumbling over a salad or putting in a sandwich. Store in an airtight container in the fridge.
Method
Blend the cashews, coconut milk, chocolate spread, cocoa powder and sugar until very smooth. Pour it into a bowl and freeze overnight.
Put the dried fruit in a bowl with the brandy or orange juice. Allow to soak overnight, this will make the fruit juicy and soft.
The next day remove the ice cream from the freezer. Allow it to melt slightly, mix in the fruit and almonds. Put the ice cream into one large round bowl or 6 small spherical moulds. Allow to chill for 4 hours.
Remove the ice cream from the bowls onto a serving plate. Scatter with a little cocoa and edible dust. Dress with holly or mint.
For a spiced pud add 2-3tsp ground cinnamon and ½-1tsp ground nutmeg. 
You can add grated orange zest to the recipe.  
To remove the puds from the bowls either leave on the counter for 5-10 minutes or place in a bowl of warm water.  
Method
Cut the mushrooms into bite-sized pieces, marinade in soy sauce and ground pepper. Cut the peppers into smallish bite-sized pieces and leave to one side.
Mix the glutinous rice powder, flour and starch powder together. Add a pinch of salt to the mixture, then add the ice cubes and mix into a batter.
Add a small amount of starch powder to the mushrooms and coat well. Then, coat them in the batter, deep fry until golden brown and remove.
Mix the ingredients for the Soy sauce-based sauce and add them to the frying pan on a medium heat, mixing until combined. Add half of the mushrooms, toss to coat with the sauce and then transfer to a plate. Add the peanuts as a topping.
Mix the ingredients for the Red chilli paste-based sauce and add them to the frying pan on a medium heat, mixing until combined. Add the peppers and stir for a couple of minutes to cook, then add the remaining mushrooms. Once coated, transfer to a plate. Add the black sesame seeds as a topping.
Method
Mix together all ingredients in a bowl.
Grease a 4-5 inch ramekin with coconut oil.
Place mixture into the ramekin and spread evenly with the back of teaspoon packing it down.
Cook in the microwave on high for 1.5 – 2 minutes – less time for a softer cookie!
Preparation
Serves:  20
Preparation time: 15 minutes, plus 30 minutes chilling
Method
Divide the 4 Nākd bars into 5 sections and roll each into a firm ball. Gently push a cake pop stick into the centre of each ball and leave to firm up some more in the freezer.
Meanwhile, melt the chocolate by placing it in a heatproof bowl over a pot of boiled water. Once melted, leave to cool slightly at room temperature.
Scatter the orange zest onto a baking tray lined with parchment paper and leave in the oven (heated at 150c) for about 10 minutes until the zest is dried out completely. Once dried, place the orange zest in a food processor or spice grinder and pulse until it looks like small sprinkles.
When the chocolate has cooled slightly but is still runny, dip the cake pops in one at a time. Twirl the pop to make sure the chocolate is evenly coated and then sprinkle the orange zest all over the pop. Return to the freezer or fridge to set for 30 minutes.
Preparation
Serves 4-6
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C/400°F/Gas 6.
Clean Brussels sprouts by cutting the end and removing any damaged leaves. Cut them in half.
Peel onion and cut into fine slices.
Toss Brussels sprouts and onion in 2-3 Tbsp of olive oil. Place on a oven tray and roast from 20-25 mins. Give vegetables a shake after 15 mins.
Make dressing by mixing together tahini, lemon juice, maple syrup, garlic and finely cut chipotle.
Remove seeds from pomegranate and place in a separate bowl.
Once vegetables are cooked, add drained chickpeas to the tray. Return to the oven for 5 mins so they heat through.
Remove vegetables and chickpeas from the oven. Transfer to a salad bowl. Add dressing on top, followed by pomegranate seeds. Add almond and parsley leaves. Toss together. Season to taste.
Serve immediately.
Preparation
In an ideal world, you would marinate the tofu overnight. In a busy world, you might have about 15 minutes to let the ingredients sit. The longer you can leave it, the better.
Method
Mix the marinade ingredients together.
Preheat oven to 300F/150C.
Pour half the marinade into a casserole dish.
Slice each block of tofu in half sideways, then in half from the top, and lay in a casserole dish.
Pour the remaining marinade over the top, and bake for 40 minutes.
Serve with seasonal steamed vegetables.
Method
Cook the rice and allow it to cool to room temperature, or use left over rice.
Place the rice in a large bowl and drizzle it with the brown rice vinegar and mirin, gently mix.
Lay a nori sheet shiny side down on the sushi mat.
Spread ¼ cup of rice over the nori using the rice paddle or your hands dipped in water, leaving ¼ bare on top edge.
Sprinkle ¼ of the sesame seeds over the rice
Make a canal with the rice paddle (or wooden spoon/hands) across the middle of the rice-covered nori sheet.
Place some carrot, cucumber avocado, watercress and daikon< or sauerkraut in neat lines across canal.
Add a thin line of Umeboshi paste across the vegetables
Starting with the end nearest to you, roll the sushi, making sure the filling is contained in the middle of the roll.
Unroll the mat, moisten the top edge of the sheet, and roll until the nori is sealed.
Cut the sushi into halves, and then quarters, using a slant or straight cut.
Dip your knife into a bowl of water mixed with some vinegar after each cut for easier cutting.
Serve with Ginger-Tamari Dipping Sauce.
Sauce:
Mix ingredients together and place in individual serving bowls.
Did you like this recipe? Explore more vegan seafood ideas.
Method
Thinly slice the courgette lengthways, and also thinly slice the tomatoes and mushrooms
Put all of these under the grill and turn the courgette slices when they start to brown
In the meantime prepare the avocado, by mixing all the other ingredients together (except the basil and olive oil)
Assemble your stacks as follows; slice of courgette, avocado, mushrooms, tomatoes, basil and repeat.
Put the stacks back under the grill just to heat through
Finish with a final layer of avocado and a drizzle of olive oil
Sit down, relax, and enjoy!
Method
1. Heat the oil in a large heavy based saucepan. Add the onion and a pinch of salt and sautee on a low heat for around 10 minutes until soft, translucent and beginning to gain some colour.
2. Add the garlic and ginger and cook for 1 minute until fragrant.
3. Add the spices, along with a splash of water (to prevent the spices from scorching).
4. Add the tomato puree and cook for 1 minute before adding the tinned tomatoes, coconut milk and chick’n.
5. Cook on a medium low heat for 20 minutes until thickened and creamy. Season well with salt and lemon juice.
6. Serve with a sprinkling of coriander and sides of your choice like rice, naan and mango chutney.
Preparation
Serves four or two big portions with leftovers for the next day!
Serving suggestions: wilted kale and toasted sunflower seeds, roasted Brussel sprouts, roasted cauliflower and broccoli, steamed broccoli
Method
Put the cashews in a bowl with some water and cover with water and leave to soak – allow for two hours unless you have a mega powerful blender!
If using the pepper and roasting your own then rub with a little oil and put on baking tray and into hot oven. Allow for 30 minutes to cook. If using peppers from a jar then you can add later.
If serving with roasted veg, prep and put in oven alongside the pepper. Crunchy veg will take longer than the pepper to roast so timing should be about spot on.
Add pasta to pot of boiling water and cook as per packet instructions. When al dente pour into colander and rinse with cold water. Set aside.
While the pasta is cooking, finely chop your onions and garlic and add to a big pan with oil. Cook until nicely softened but not brown. If using carrot, also chop finely and add alongside the onions and garlic. Cook until carrot is soft.
Scrape down the pan and add the onion and garlic mix to the blender, along with the rest of the ingredients (don’t add the yeast last or you will lose some of it when it whizzes around). If using the pepper, this is when you add it. (Remove as much of the skin as you can before doing so and exclude all pips and the stalk.)
You now need to blend until lovely and smooth. This will take at least three or four goes depending on your blender. Scrape down the sides in between blends to make sure everything is incorporated.
Pour the mixture back into the pot that you cooked the onions and garlic in and allow to thicken on a medium/low heat. Stir frequently.
When thickened you can choose to add the lemon juice. I find that it lifts it a little but taste before doing so. Just add a little squeeze first if you like and then taste again.
Now add the cold pasta into the sauce, mix thoroughly and heat through.
When nice and hot it’s time to serve… Spoon into large bowls with accompanying veg. Dig in!
Want more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary and we’ll send you meal plans, our celebrity cookbook, recipes and more! Psst… it’s all free!
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 220C/200C Fan/Gas 7. Pour the oil into a metal roasting tin, roughly 20cm / 8in – a cake tin will do as long as it doesn’t have a loose base. Put in the oven and heat for 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, mix the flour, baking powder and salt in a mixing bowl. Add 200ml of the soy milk and whisk until smooth. Add the remaining milk and mix until thoroughly combined.
Carefully take the tin with the hot oil out of the oven; it will be extremely hot. Add the Beyond Sausage Brat Original to the tin, spaced apart from each other, then return to the oven for 2 minutes.
Take the tin carefully out of the oven once more and pour over the batter. Return the tin to the oven and cook for 30 minutes, or until the batter has risen, golden brown and hot throughout.
While the toad-in-the-hole is cooking, make the onion gravy. Heat the oil in a saucepan and fry the onion for 10 minutes, or until softened and lightly browned, stirring regularly.
Pour the stock into the pan, add the ketchup, soy sauce, and yeast extract. Bring to a gentle simmer and cook for 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Mix the cornflour with a tablespoon of cold water in a small bowl until smooth.
Stir the cornflour into the pan with the onion and return to a simmer. Cook for 1-2 minutes more until the sauce is thickened, stirring. Season with lots of ground black pepper.
Serve the freshly cooked toad-in-a-hole with the hot onion gravy.
Preparation
Perfect for Spaghetti Marinara!
Method
Thinly slice the garlic and chop the onion.
Add the oil to a frying pan and heat to moderate temperature. Add the chopped onion and garlic and stir. Once softened, add the paprika, cumin, cayenne and oregano and leave for a minute to release the flavours.
Next, add the chopped tomatoes, purée and balsamic vinegar, stirring well.
Simmer for 10 minutes.
Pour the sauce into a food processor and blitz until smooth.
Pour back into the pan, add the salt and pepper, and leave to reduce further. Simmer for at least another 10 minutes.
If you’re not using the sauce straight away, leave to cool then transfer into a sterilised jar. It will keep in the fridge for a couple of weeks.
NOTES: If you are using fresh tomatoes rather than tinned, add an extra tbsp of pepper or tomato purée.
Preparation
Most places have started to stock chipotle paste these days, which has made its sweet smokiness easier to come by. If you can’t get your hands on chipotle, ½ a teaspoon of hot smoked paprika will do.
Method
Heat a touch of olive oil in a pan, add the sweet potato and the maple syrup and season with salt and pepper.
Add the chipotle paste and the chopped chilli and cook for a few minutes, until the potato has softened and lost its rawness.
Transfer to a bowl and add the beans, then use a potato masher to mash the whole lot up a little – you will still have some flecks of unmashed sweet potato. Season if needed.
Mash the avocado with a little lime juice and stir in the herbs. I use the potato masher again here.
Now heat a frying pan big enough for your tortillas. Lay a tortilla fat in the pan, spoon a quarter of the mixture on to one half of it, then fold over the other half.
Dry fry on one side until it’s blistered and golden brown, then flip over and do the same on the other side. Keep the quesadilla warm while you do this with the rest of the tortillas.
Serve straight from the pan with the mashed avocado.
As part of a bigger meal:
Serve with a couple of handfuls of lemon-dressed salad leaves.
Serve with a crunchy salad of radishes, leaves, shaved fennel and coriander, and a quick tomato salsa.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Makes: 2 wraps; doubles easily
(I especially like this with Vegan Cream of Broccoli Soup.)
Method
Place one wrap on a plate. Spread with about 1/4 cup hummus and sprinkle with hemp seeds, if desired.
Arrange half the quinoa down the center of the wrap. Put a big handful of leafy greens next to it on one side and half the tomato slices on the other.
Place half the avocado strips here and there, followed by a few strips of sun-dried tomatoes, if desired.
Tuck two ends over the fillings; then, starting from one end, roll tightly, making sure that the ends are kept tucked in and that everything remains snugly inside. Repeat with the second wrap.
Cut each wrap in half and eat out of hand.
Method
1. Blend the almonds in a food processor (or high-speed blender) until fine.
2. Add remaining ingredients to the food processor (apart from the extra 1 tbsp of cacao for dusting)
3. Roll into balls and roll in the additional cacao on a plate until fully coated.
4. Enjoy straight away for a softer texture or refrigerate for a couple hours first to allow them to firm up.
Method
Preheat oven to 160 degrees C.
Combine all dry base ingredients in a large mixing bowl. 
Then add maple syrup, coconut butter and coconut oil, mix until it starts to stick together. 
Press into the base of 6 greased mini tartlet cases.  
Place in the oven and bake for 15-20 minutes. Allow to cool completely. 
Whilst cooling, prepare the lemon filling. Place almond milk, agar agar, maple syrup and arrowroot flour in a heavy based saucepan. Bring to a boil and simmer for ten minutes, stirring occasionally.
Allow to cool, stirring frequently, ensuring mixture does not set. 
Place coconut yogurt, lemon juice / zest and almond milk mixture into high speed blender, blend for 30 seconds.  
Pour into tart cases and place in the fridge to set for 2-3 hours. 
Preparation
Makes 8 burgers
They freeze well and you don’t need to worry about defrosting them, you can simply fry them gently from frozen until cooked through, making them handy little things. 
Method
Begin by peeling the onion and carrots and then finely grating, either by hand or using a food processor. Heat one tablespoon of the oil in a large frying pan and then gently fry the onion and carrots until softened – approximately 10 minutes.
Place the chickpeas and cooked quinoa into a large mixing bowl and crush together with a fork until you have a coarse, lightly-bound paste.  Add the softened onion, carrot and curry paste, season with a little sea salt and black pepper and mash together with a fork until bound together.
Using your hands, form the mixture into 8 burger patties and then coat each burger in gram flour, using as much or as little flour as you need to generously coat the burgers.
Heat the remaining oil in the large frying pan over a medium flame, add the burgers to the pan and fry the burgers on both sides until golden, slightly crisp and heated through.
While the cakes are frying dice the tomatoes, avocado and coriander.  Mix together in a small bowl with the lemon juice and season to taste.  Serve the burgers with a little pile of tomato salad on top and whatever accompaniments you like – roasted sweet potato wedges and a big green salad go very well.
Preparation
Start with preparing the seitan by heating the oven to 375f / 190c / Gas Mark 5.
You will also need:
– 8 inch x 8 inch greaseproof baking dish.
Method
Preparing the Seitan:
1) Combine the first 5 dry ingredients and set to one side.
2) To the cold vegetable stock, add the soy sauce and peanut butter. Whisk together well.
3) Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients, add the liquid and bring together. You may need to use a spoon or spatula to combine initially but once it forms a dough the best thing to do is just get stuck in with your hands.
4) Kneed the dough in the bowl for 10 minutes or so until it toughens up and holds its shape. Let it rest for 10 minutes then kneed again for a further 5-10 minutes.
5) Oil an 8inch x 8inch dish, shape the seitan dough to the dish and bake in the oven for 30 – 40 minutes.
Preparing the Sauce:
1) Whilst the seitan is cooking in the oven, you can move on to preparing the sauce. Very simply add all of the ingredients to a small saucepan and heat over medium heat for 10 – 15 minutes until it has reduced, the sugar has melted and thickened the sauce.
Marinating and Cooking the Seitan:
This recipe works best if you can prepare it the day before and leave time for the seitan to marinate in the sauce overnight. However, if you’re pushed for time then marinating for 4 hours or so should suffice.
1) Once the seitan has cooled, slice into strips and add to a fresh dish large enough to accommodate the marinade.
2) To marinate, take half of the prepared sauce, add 50ml of water to thin it out and cover the seitan strips. Cover with cling film and pop it in the fridge.
3)  To cook the strips, once they have marinated for as long as you have time to allow, add them to a heated frying pan along with the marinade and fry on medium-high for 10 minutes.
4) Turn the strips over regularly to ensure even cooking and add the remaining half of the sauce. Lower to heat to medium and continue cooking for a further 5 – 10 minutes to heat through the sauce. Be sure to continue turning the strips every few minutes for even cooking.
The strips are now ready to use as you wish, whether it be with noodles, fried rice or in a veggie stir fry.
Method
Wipe clean and lightly fry the mushrooms in olive oil until tender. Add a generous squeeze of lemon juice and a bit of the rind. Then toss in thyme, salt and pepper
Cut large tomatoes in half and place tightly in baking dish, drizzle with olive oil and a dash of balsamic vinegar. Top with slices of fresh garlic, a sprinkle of smoked paprika and coarse salt. Roast in a hot oven till just starting to collapse.
Bake 4 Schnitzels for 10 minutes at 190C.
Combine elements beautifully on a plate.
Preparation
This recipe serves 12. Delicious warm or cool.
Preheat oven to 180C and line a square baking tray with baking paper.
Method
To make the Salted Caramel:
Heat the coconut cream in a pan. In a separate pan, add the sugar and equal part of water (i.e. 4tbsp sugar to 4tbsp water).
Over low heat, swirl the sugar until it starts turning a golden colour.
Then add the cream.
Mix together the syrup, peanut butter and salt.
Whisk into the cream.
Mixture will turn a rich caramel colour.
To make the Brownies:
Make your flax eggs and set aside (For each egg, combine 1 tablespoon of ground flax seed with 3 tablespoons of water. Stir well).
Mix together all the dry ingredients.
I use a separate bowl mix together the wet ingredients.
Beat the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients until a smooth consistency is reached.
Pour the Brownie mixture into the prepared tray.
Pour the Caramel mixture over the top.
Use knife to drag the caramel mixture to create a swirl.
Bake for 35-40 min.
Cut into 12 squares and serve with a dusting of icing sugar.
Preparation
Serves: 6
Method
Heat the oil, broth, or water in a soup pot and add the onion. Sauté over medium heat until translucent, then add the garlic if desired. Continue to sauté until the onion is golden.
Add the broth and broccoli. Bring to a simmer, then cover and simmer gently until the broccoli is tender but not overcooked, about 8 to 10 minutes. Add the beans or tofu and half the green peas.
Continue to cook just until everything is nicely heated through.
The easiest way to puree this soup is to simply insert an immersion blender into the pot and puree until it’s as smooth as you’d like it to be. You can also leave it a bit chunky. If you don’t have an immersion blender, transfer the mixture to a regular blender and puree (don’t overprocess!), then transfer back to the soup pot. Add enough nondairy milk to give the soup a medium-thick consistency.
To finish the soup, add the remaining green peas, the finely chopped broccoli florets, the chopped herbs, and the lemon juice. Stir together, then season with salt and pepper. Cook over very low heat for 5 minutes longer, or until the finely chopped broccoli florets are tender-crisp, then serve.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Dice the onion and gently fry in a pan with some olive oil. Add the crushed garlic, pepper, cumin and turmeric.
Crumble the tofu into the pan using your hands, add the nutritional yeast and mix until well combined. Leave to cook for 5 minutes.
Add the chopped tomatoes to the pan along with 100 ml of water. Once the tomatoes start to break down add the spinach. Leave to cook for another 5 minutes.
Add the seasoning, squeeze over the fresh lemon juice and sprinkle over the herbs and paprika.
Preparation
Serves 2.
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Method
After rinsing, place the quinoa in a saucepan with 200ml water. Cover, bring to the boil and simmer until the water has evaporated (about 12-15 minutes). Leave covered for another 5 minutes.
While the quinoa is cooking, prepare the flax egg by combining the ground flax seeds and water in a small bowl and placing in the fridge.
Next, put all of the ground spices into a pan and heat, moderately, on the hob for a few minutes until you can smell the aromas. Give the spices a stir to ensure even toasting and remove from the heat.
The quinoa should now be ready. Fluff with a fork and place in a large bowl.
Place the chickpeas, half of the pumpkin seeds, half of the apricots, the maple syrup, flax egg and half of the toasted spices in a food processor. Pulse until well combined, into a paste. I like to have a few of the chickpeas left whole, but if you want a completely smooth texture, keep pulsing until this happens.
Turn out this mixture into the bowl with the quinoa and stir it all together.
Line a flat baking tray with foil and oil the surface with 1 tsp of the olive oil.
Make the meatballs by rolling a teaspoon amount of the mixture in your hands, placing each one on the tray. Make sure to wash your hands immediately after, to prevent orange staining!
Cook on a middle shelf for 20 minutes, turning half way through.
While the meatballs are cooking, make the sauce – Add the second tsp of olive oil to the pan that still has half of the toasted spices in it. Heat moderately, then add the chopped onion and garlic. Once softened, add the tinned tomatoes, stirring well. Add the soy sauce and vinegar and simmer for 5 minutes. Pour into the food processor (no need to rinse from making the meatballs) and blitz until smooth. Pour back into the pan to reduce further.
Add the remaining pumpkin seeds and apricots (chopped), the coriander and lemon juice. Keep on a low heat until you’re ready to serve.
If you’re serving the tagine with zoodles, make these now.
Assemble all the elements and sprinkle with more fresh herbs.
Preparation
1. To prepare the marinade, add the cream, paprika, cumin, garam masala, a big pinch of salt and the juice from the lemon to a large mixing bowl and stir to combine. Then tear the oyster mushrooms into 3-4cm pieces and add them to the bowl. Stir until the mushrooms are totally coated in the marinade and leave to sit in the fridge for 30 minutes.
2. Heat the oven to 200°C / 390°F.
3. Next, pierce the mushrooms onto 4 skewers and add them to a baking tray, resting the ends of the skewers over the sides of the tray. Roast for 30 minutes.
4. Meanwhile start preparing the sauce. Peel and dice the onion. Then add the vegan butter to a frying pan over a medium heat. Throw in the onion and fry for 6 minutes. Meanwhile peel and dice the garlic and ginger. Then add them to the pan and fry for 3 minutes.
5. Next add the cumin, garam masala, turmeric and ground coriander and fry for 3 minutes.
6. Then add the tinned tomatoes, sugar and chilli powder to the pan along with a big pinch of salt. Bring the sauce to a gentle simmer and cook for 10-15 minutes or until the sauce has thickened.
7. Cook the rice as per the packet instructions.
8. Transfer the sauce to a blender (this is optional), blend until smooth, then pour the sauce back into the pan and stir in the remaining cream.
9. Remove the mushrooms from the skewers and add them straight to the pan along with any juices that have gathered in the baking tray. Heat through for 1-2 minutes.
10. Stir to combine then serve alongside some rice and chopped fresh coriander.
Method
Tagine:
Heat the olive oil in a heavy based pan.
Add the garlic, onion and cinnamon. Heat on low for 10 to 15 minutes, stirring to coat the onion and garlic with the cinnamon.
Cook until fragrant and crisp. Set aside.
In a tagine or heavy based pot, place the carrots, squash, sweet potatoes and courgette in sections.
Add about an inch of water, cover and place on a very low heat for approximately 25-30 minutes or until vegetables are soft.
Add a little more water if the tagine seems too dry. Serve on a bed of couscous and top with the onions and garlic.
Summer Couscous:
Add the salt and oil to boiling water.
Spread couscous evenly in the bottom of a large casserole so that it is in as thin a layer as possible.
Add the water and cover tightly with a lid or clingfilm.
Wait until all the water is absorbed (about 15 minutes), then fluff with a fork – add a little olive oil here if you wish.
For a delicious and simple couscous salad recipe, make the couscous as described above. Let it cool, and then toss it with canned organic chickpeas, finely chopped spring onions, fresh mint, lemon infused olive oil, and sea salt. Other nice additions are raisins, pine nuts, black and green olives, and flat leaf parsley.
Chickpeas, cannellini beans or borlotti beans add texture and extra protein for vegetarians.
Add lemon juice, loads of flat-leaf parsley, mint, coriander, olive oil and pepper for a salad.
Add roasted vegetables with cooked brown lentils for a great main course for a buffet or a packed lunch.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Mix the superfood ingredients together and set aside
Drizzle half the dressing in the bottom of a large bowl
Add mixed leaves
Top with the rocket leaves and drizzle with the remaining dressing
Add the cucumber, roasted peppers and red onion
Top evenly with the superfood mix
Finish with chopped parsley
Method
A few easy steps to refried beans:
Heat about 4 tbsp of sesame oil in a heavy frying pan or a wok, over medium heat.
Add the garlic and sliced onion and sauté until softened and beginning to brown, about five minutes, stirring occasionally.
Stir in the coriander.
Add the cooked beans, and using a big spoon, or potato masher start mashing the beans in the oil.
The unique taste of refried beans occurs as a result of slowly frying the starches inside the beans in the oil, so you want to add the beans a little bit at a time if you are using more than one jar. This way of cooking the beans makes sure they all get fried and take on the flavours of the vegetables and coriander.
Once all the beans have been mashed add the shoyu or tamari and a little water, until you get the texture that you want. Keep it a bit looser than you eventually want, as they will continue to firm up as they cool off the heat.
These will also freeze well, so it’s a good idea to make more than you need. The recipe above can be easily doubled or more.
Plate up:
Warm the corn tortillas in a dry frying pan for a few minutes either side.
Remove to a plate.
Spread with some vegan mayonnaise, fill with salad and top with the beans and some relish or salsa if desired.
If you prefer a hot spicy taste adjust the ingredients accordingly.
Method
1. Begin by preheating the oven to 180° and rolling out the puff pastry onto a
flat surface.
2. Using a brush, coat the puff pastry in the oil, and then sprinkle over the
smoked paprika so it covers as much of the pastry as possible.
3. Season with salt and pepper.
4. Next, finely grate the melting mature cheeze and sprinkle it over the entirety
of the pastry sheet.
5. Now, using a sheet of baking paper or clingfilm, place it on top of the pastry
and gently press down. This will push the melting mature cheeze into the pastry.
6. Carefully remove the paper and then using a sharp knife cut into 9-12 strips
horizontally.
7. Twist the strips and place them onto a baking tray ensuring there is space in
between them as they’ll puff up.
8. Sprinkle with any remaining grated cheeze and place the tray into the oven for
20-25 minutes. Serve with a salsa or dip of choice.
Method
Boil the potatoes in water until they are soft, then drain.
In a bowl, combine the garlic, ginger, onion, chilli and lemon juice, then coat the potatoes in the mixture. Season to taste.
Heat the oil in a frying pan, then add the fenugreek seeds. When they start to brown, add the green chillis and the turmeric. Cook for another minute, then add this spice mixture to the potatoes.
Refrigerate to cool, then serve garnished with the coriander
Method
Heat Flora Freedom and oil in a large pan and fry the onion until soft, but not browned.
Stir in the garlic, ginger, chilli (if using), rice, turmeric and cook gently while stirring for 2-3 minutes.
Add mushrooms then pour in the vegetable stock and bring to the boil.
Cover and cook over a gentle heat for about 25 minutes, or until the rice is tender and the liquid has been absorbed.
Stir the pine nuts and coriander through the rice and continue to cook for a further 3-4 minutes.
Season to taste and serve immediately.
Method
Preheat the oven to 220C / gas mark 7 / 425F.
Place the parsnips on a baking tray, coat evenly with 2tbsp olive oil and season to taste. Place in the oven and roast for around 25-30 minutes, turning occasionally, until they are golden brown and soft in the middle.
In the meantime, heat 2tbsp oil in a large pan over a medium high heat. Once hot, add the shallots and garlic. Fry for 2 minutes, stirring frequently.
Add the swede and sweet potato to the pan, fry for around five minutes , stirring occasionally. Add the mushrooms and sauté for another couple of minutes.
Add the vegetable stock, 175ml of the cider and the bay leaf to the pan. Mix well, cover and allow to simmer for around ten minutes, stirring from time to time.
As the casserole is simmering, place the dumpling ingredients together into a bowl and mix until they have combined. Add around a tablespoon of water to the mix to form a dough. Shape into small balls and set to one side.
Mix the remaining cider together with the cornflour, add this to the casserole and boil until the liquid thickens. Place the dumplings on top of the stew, cover, lower the heat slightly and begin to simmer for around fifteen minutes until the dumplings have risen and the vegetables are soft.
Season with a good dose of freshly ground pepper and serve along with the roasted parsnips.
Preparation
The key to this recipe is not to over blend as you need the mixture to stay firm and try to get as much of the excess moisture out from the carrots as possible.
Method
1) Put the walnuts into a food processor and pulse until they look crumbly, then add the dates and pulse again.
2) Add the grated carrot and spices and pulse until the mixture starts to look dough-like, add raisins and pulse for another thirty seconds – be careful not to over mix here, better less than more.
3) Push the carrot cake mixture down into ramekins – choose the size you like, or make a variety from small bites to large handfuls! Refrigerate for at least one hour.
4) Meanwhile, make the frosting. Drain the cashews and dates and put them in your food processor along with the lemon juice and salt.
5) You’ll probably need to add a little water to get the mixture moving. Blend until smooth and creamy(if your blender is high power) or smooth but textured (if it’s not).
6) Take your carrot cakes from the fridge and pop them out of their ramekins. Pipe over with the icing.
Preparation
Serves 4 Generously.
The key to this recipe is to measure your water carefully and to use the right pan: you need a large shallow sauté pan or a casserole large enough to fit the pasta lying down.
A large deep frying pan or wok would work well too.
Method
Fill and boil a kettle and get all your ingredients and equipment together. You need a large shallow pan with a lid.
Put the pasta into the pan.
Quickly and roughly chop the tomatoes in half and throw them into the pan.
Grate in the zest of both lemons and add the oil and salt.
Add 1 litre of boiling water, put a lid on the pan and bring to the boil. As soon as it comes to the boil, remove the lid and simmer on a high heat for 6 minutes, using a pair of tongs to turn the pasta every 30 seconds or so as it cooks.
Meanwhile, remove any tough stalks from the kale or spinach and roughly tear the leaves.
Once the pasta has had 6 minutes, add the kale and continue to cook for a further 2 minutes.
Once almost all the water has evaporated, take the pan off the heat and tangle into four bowls.
If you like, top with a little vegan Parmesan.
Method
Place all the ingredients in a blender
Blend until smooth
Pour into a glass and enjoy
Preparation
Gumbo filé, which is dried and ground sassafras leaves, is an ingredient sometimes added to gumbo but is not included in this recipe. It imparts an earthy flavor and is also used to thicken the gumbo. After consulting a chef colleague from New Orleans who specializes in Cajun cuisine, she informed me that the filé is purely an optional ingredient. In restaurants it is often contained in a shaker on the table which gives the diner the option to use it as desired.
Method
Prepare your mise en place (assemble and measure all ingredients).
Heat the oil in a large cooking pot over medium heat. Add the onion, bell pepper and celery and sauté until softened, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and sauté an additional minute. Add the butter or margarine and stir until melted. Sprinkle in the flour, stir to combine and cook until the flour emits a nutty aroma, about 2 minutes.
Incorporate the water in increments while stirring vigorously. Stir in the tamari, Worcestershire, liquid smoke, tomatoes with liquid, okra, chickpeas, thyme, optional kelp powder, cayenne and bay leaf. Bring to a boil then reduce the heat; partially cover and simmer for a minimum of 1 hour. While the gumbo is cooking, prepare white or brown rice, your choice, and keep warm until ready to serve.
Five minutes before serving, stir the green onions and parsley into the gumbo (reserve a little for garnishing). Add salt, black pepper or additional cayenne, kelp powder and/or liquid smoke as desired to taste. To serve, place a scoop of white or brown rice into serving bowls and ladle in the gumbo. Garnish with green onions and parsley.
Method
In a bowl, mix together the dry ingredients (oats, chopped almonds, seeds and cinnamon.
In a saucepan, over a low heat, melt the maple syrup and almond butter.
Add the melted syrup and butter to the oat mix and stir through thoroughly.
Line a baking tray with greaseproof paper and pour in the mixture and pack roughly down.
Cook for 20 minutes at 180C. Leave to cool in the tray and then store in an airtight container.
Method
Bring a large pot of water to the boil. Add a generous pinch of salt and stir. Add the spaghetti and cook according to the packet instructions.
In the meantime, heat the olive oil in a saucepan. Add the chopped onion and fry over a low heat for 3–5 minutes, until softened and translucent but not browned. Add the carrots, celery and green beans. Stir in the chopped tomatoes, tomato puree, mushrooms and cayenne pepper. Add a generous pinch of salt and pepper to taste. Allow to simmer for 10 minutes. Stir through the fresh parsley.
Drain the spaghetti when cooked, and divide between serving plates. Top each serving with a quarter of the bolognaise sauce. Top with some freshly ground black pepper. Serve hot.
Method
Heat the oil in a large frying pan and fry the onion and red pepper until soft.
Add the coconut milk and cook-in sauce to the pan and mix well.
Add the zucchini and baby corn and simmer for 5–7 minutes.
Stir in flash-fried Prawn-Style Pieces and sugar snap peas. Garnish with chopped spring onions and serve with rice.
Preparation
Serves 2
Method
Put the water in a pan and let it boil
Add a cube of vegan stock
Once it’s dissolved let it simmer
Add the broccoli and cauliflower – chopped
After a couple of minutes, add the kale
Mix and add the baby corn – I cut each one in to 3 pieces
Add the capers and mix
Let the soup boil
After about 10 minutes add the cherry tomatoes and sweetcorn
Let it cook for another 5 minutes and then add a handful of sesame seeds
Dice the tofu and heat in a ‘dry’ frying pan
Add a little vegan margarine and mix
Add this to the soup and let it cook
Put the cashew nuts in the same frying pan and mix
Turn the heat off when they become brown – how brown you want them to be depends on you
Serve the soup and add the cashew nuts on top
My hubby said he could eat this at least three times a week, because it was so healthy and tasty!
Preparation
Makes: 12
Preparation time: 10 minutes
Cooking time: 15 minutes
Method
Preheat the oven to 190ºC, Gas Mark 6
Next, line a twelve-hole muffin tray with paper cases
In a large bowl, stir together the flour, baking powder, bicarbonate of soda, salt, xanthan gum, seeds and Nākd Berry Delight Fruit & Nut Bits
In a separate bowl, mash the bananas with a fork and add the milk, melted spread and fruit syrup. Mix well.
Stir the wet ingredients into the dry and mix until just combined, then fold in the blueberries
Divide the mixture between the paper cases and bake for 15 minutes or until the tops are lightly browned and spring back when pressed gently.
Leave to stand until cool
Preparation
To make the most of fruits in season check the helpful guides from Eat Seasonably and What’s in Season. Celebrate fruits at their very best, full of flavour and nutrients and produced in harmony with the environment.
Method
To achieve the best results when making pastry, everything needs to be as cool as possible, including your kitchen. You can even pre-chill your flour and the bowl you’ll be using!
Sieve the flour and sugar into the bowl and add the cubes of vegan margarine. Rub the fat into the flour using your fingertips, working quickly and with a light touch to avoid the fat melting, until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Check for any remaining lumps of margarine by shaking the bowl to bring them to the surface.
Make a well in the centre of the mixture and add the chilled water, a little at a time. Lightly work the mixture to form a ball, adding a sprinkle of flour if the mixture is too wet, or a touch more water if it’s too dry.
Allow the pastry to ‘rest’ in the fridge for 20-30 minutes prior to using it.
Roll out the pastry on a floured surface, then line a 9” greased flan tin and return to the fridge for a further 30 minutes to chill, as this should help prevent the pastry from shrinking.
Pre-heat the oven to 190ºC/375ºF/Gas Mark 5.
Bake the pastry case ‘blind’ (partially baking pastry before adding a wet filling, to avoid making it soggy). Prick over with a fork, line with greaseproof paper and fill with ceramic baking beans, dried pulses or uncooked rice.
Bake for about 15 minutes or until the pastry starts to become a light golden brown. Remove the paper and beans, then return to the oven for a couple of minutes. Remove the pastry case from the oven and allow to cool.
In the meantime make the fruit filling. Wash and prepare the fruit by either trimming the rhubarb, stoning the cherries or plums or coring the apples. Reserve the most attractive fruits for decorating the top.
Cut the remainder into small pieces and simmer in a pan over a gentle heat with the margarine, sugar or syrup, a splash of water and the optional lemon juice and cinnamon until soft and pulpy. In the unlikely event that the mixture is far too wet, simply remove any excess juice and thicken the fruit pulp with a little cornflour or tapioca flour. Remove from the heat and allow to cool, then use to cover the base of the pastry case.
Cut the reserved fruit accordingly – the rhubarb into pieces, the cherries and plums into halves and the apples into slices – and arrange neatly on top. If necessary, brush the apple slices with a little lemon juice to prevent them from browning. They look great laid in concentric circles, each slice overlapping the last! If you like, you can also brush the fruit with a little melted vegan margarine and sprinkle with cinnamon.
Bake for 25 minutes at 180ºC/350ºF/Gas Mark 4. If you want to brown the edges of the fruit, just flash the tart under a hot grill.
For a really quick and easy glaze, brush the tart over with the warmed, sieved apricot preserve.
Serve the tart warm or at room temperature. For an extra finishing touch, lightly dust with icing sugar and serve with plain soya yogurt which has been strained and flavoured with a little vanilla and cardamom.
Alternatively, you could indulge in some delicious Booja Booja ‘icecream’ which is based on cashew nuts and agave nectar. The ‘Keep Smiling Vanilla M’Gorilla’ would make a great accompaniment, or maybe the ‘Pompompous Maple Pecan’ or ‘Coconut Hullabaloo’!
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 200 degrees Celsius.
Method
In a mixing bowl, mash the banana well with a fork
Add the oil and sugar and mix well
Add the flour, baking soda, salt and any vegan powdered spice/flavour you like
Mix these ingredients well, until the mixture is quite moist
Now it’s time to add the oats, any nuts and seeds you have chosen. Mix really well to make sure it is all well distributed and stuck together
Make small balls with the dough and place on an oiled baking tray
Flatten the balls with the palm of your hand, making sure there is a reasonable gap between each disc shape
Bake for 10-15 minutes (depending on how browned you like your cookies) in a preheated oven (200 Degrees Celsius)
Leave to cool on the baking trays once finished in the oven and once they are slightly hardened, twist and lift to remove them from the tray and place on a cooling tray for a further 10 minutes
Tips – If your dough mixture is too greasy, add a few more teaspoons of flour. If your dough mixture is too dry and not sticking, add a little more oil until the mixture holds better.
Did you enjoy making this breakfast cookie recipe? Sign up to Veganuary to receive recipes, meal plans, our celebrity cookbook and more (all for free!).
Preparation
In a large saucepan, sauté onions + garlic with a pinch of salt + pepper in the olive oil until lightly browned.
Add lentils, carrots, stock, gravy + parsley + stir. Simmer until lentils are tender (about 30 mins). Stir in the peas + thicken with cornflour mixed with water if needed.
Meanwhile, peel the potatoes + slice any large ones in half. Place in a large pot + cover with water. Bring to a simmer, then salt, cover + cook for 20-30 minutes or until very tender.
Heat the oven to 180°C / 160 °C Fan.
Once the potatoes are cooked, drain + mash with vegetable margarine, soya milk, salt and pepper.
Transfer the lentil mixture to a baking dish + carefully top with mashed potatoes. Smooth down with a fork.
Place the dish on a baking tray + bake for 15 minutes or until the mash is lightly browned on top.
Tip: Add a dash of vegan Worcester sauce (we like Biona) to the lentil mix for a savoury boost.
Method
To make the chips, heat the oil to about 160˚C/320˚F. When a cube of bread browns in about 40 seconds, put half the chips in – you’re going to cook them in two batches – and fry for about 10 minutes until the insides are soft. Keep the temperature constant. Remove with a slotted spoon and leave to drain on a baking sheet covered with paper towels.
While the chips are draining, make the beer batter by combining the flour, cornflour, onion, garlic and chilli powders with the ale, mixing thoroughly. In a pan, heat the oil to 170˚C/340˚F. Check the temperature by putting a couple of drops of batter in the oil and seeing if it crisps up.
Dust the tofu and nori slices with a little cornflour, then coat with the batter mixture and add to the hot oil in batches. They should take about 3–4 minutes to get really crisp. Flip them over midway so that they get nice and golden on both sides. Remove with a slotted spoon, place on some kitchen paper to soak up any excess oil and season to taste.
When you’re ready to eat, heat the oil to 190˚C/375˚F, put the chips back in and cook until they’re golden and crispy. This should take about 6 minutes. Meanwhile, put the peas in boiling water with a little salt, bring to the boil, then cook for a couple of minutes until they’re slightly overdone. Strain, put them back in the pan, then crush with a potato masher, adding a little water if necessary to make them soft. Add the apple cider vinegar and chopped mint. Season with salt and pepper and slowly heat while mixing for a couple of minutes.
 Put everything together on a (big!) plate with a generous wedge of lemon and a dollop of Tartare Sauce* and enjoy.
* Tartare Sauce: Simply mix all the ingredients together and chill until ready to serve. The sauce can be stored in the fridge for up to 2 days.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan seafood recipes.
Preparation
THE DAY BEFORE: cut the block of tofu into 5 slices, each about 1 cm thick, then cut each slice in half again so you have 10 pieces. Place between sheets of kitchen paper on a plate and freeze. Remove from the freezer a couple of hours before you want to start cooking, in order to defrost.
Method
Heat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
Once the tofu has defrosted, press between sheets of kitchen paper until most of the water has gone (you can do this using a heavy book). You don’t want the tofu to be so dry that it crumbles, but just to remove most of the water.
Combine the ingredients for the tofu coating ‘batter’ in a bowl.
Dip each tofu wing into the batter to fully coat and place on a non-stick baking tray, greased with a little oil if needed.
Place on the top shelf of the oven and cook for 30 minutes, turning once half way through.
Next, put the BBQ sauce on to simmer. Combine all the ingredients and cook on a medium heat on the hob, covering with a lid once it starts to bubble and spit. You want a thick sauce, so simmer for 20-30 minutes.
While the wings and BBQ sauce are cooking, make the ranch. Put all the ingredients into a food processor and blitz until smooth.
Once the wings have been cooking for 30 minutes, remove from the oven. Carefully place each one in the BBQ sauce, coat using a spoon, then place back onto the baking tray.
Cook for a further 10 minutes, arrange on a plate with the ranch and serve!
NOTES: Freezing the tofu isn’t essential, but it leads to a chewier texture. If you’re not freezing it, drain and press for a little longer, ensuring as much water is squeezed out as possible.
Love this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary for recipes, our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice and more – all for free!
Preparation
Place the cashews and dates in a bowl and soak in recently boiled water for at least 30 minutes.
Method
Drain the cashews and dates in a colander and return to the bowl.
Add the rest of the ingredients and mix until smooth using an electronic hand blender (use a food processor, if you have one).
That’s it! Keep it in the fridge for a few days, or freeze to use at a later date.
Method
Preheat the oven to 190c (170c Fan) and line a baking sheet with greaseproof paper.  Cream together the margarine and sugar until light and fluffy.  Stir in the lemon zest.  Then add the flour and ground rice and stir together until clumpy.
Using your hands, begin to knead the biscuit dough until combined and smooth.  Transfer to a smooth worktop or wooden board and the roll the biscuit dough into a thick sausage shape approximately 18cm/7inches long.
Sprinkle the worktop or board with the demerara sugar and then roll the biscuit dough in it until well coated.  Cut into 15 rounds (they will be about 1cm thick) and then lay them flat on the baking tray.  Bake in the oven for 18-20 minutes or until golden.  Remove from the oven and transfer to a wire rack to cool before serving.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Locate dark chocolate
Relish every mouthful
Method
Sauté the onion and garlic until soft, then add mushrooms until soft, then season to taste.
Add drained quinoa to the pan, and add a quarter of the wine (or bouillon, if preferred).
When the wine has evaporated, add the remaining wine. Simmer.
Serve with a seasonal salad.
Method
Pre-heat your oven to 220°C/425°F/Gas Mark 7 and grease a baking tray.
Sieve the flour into a bowl and rub in the margarine until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs.
Stir in the raisins and optional sugar.
Make a well and add the plant milk, reserving a little for brushing the tops.
Incorporate the plant milk then knead lightly on a floured surface and roll out to 2cm thickness and cut out with a large cutter.
Brush the tops with the reserved plant milk and bake for about 10 minutes until golden brown.
Dust with a little icing sugar, if desired, and serve with strawberry preserve, Mimilicious vegan ‘clotted cream’ and oodles of freshly-picked, local, organic, in-season strawberries!
Method
Soak cashews for at least 30 minutes.
Brownie Crust:
Add walnuts to food processor and process until the big chunks are gone.
Add in the rest of the brownie crust ingredients and process until it becomes one big ball of dough.
Pat the crust down with your hands or a spoon into a 9in glass pie dish.
Cream Filling: 
Drain and rinse cashews.
If you have a Vitamix add all the ingredients together and blend until smooth.
If you have a regular blender of food process blend the cashews separately, adding a little bit of milk at a time until you have a smooth cashew cream.
Then add in the rest of the ingredients and blend until smooth.
Freeze for 1 hour.
Refrigerate for the remainder of the pie’s life.
Notes
Coconut milk may be substituted for water or any other nut milk.
Walnuts may be substituted for pecans.
Preparation
Serves 4 – 6.
First make the spinach pistou (even better if you can make it the day before). Pistou is a Provencal version of Pesto – much lighter, without the cheese and pine nuts.
Preheat the oven to 200°C/gas mark 6.
Method
Place the squash on an oiled baking tray. Rub a little oil and salt over it and bake for 30 minutes, turning the pieces gently over once. You’re not looking for loads of colour here, just lovely soft, golden squash.
Toss the fennel in olive oil, place on a separate baking tray and scatter with a pinch of sea salt. Bake for 30 minutes, turning once, until it’s nicely golden and sweet. When the squash is ready, put it into a processor with the tofu and blend until smooth. Now, place in a large bowl and stir in the flour, salt, pepper and sage until a soft dough forms. Leave to cool down and firm up – it will be a lot easier to handle.
Using two teaspoons, make gnocchi shapes (lovely little flat oval dumplings) with the mixture and place on an oiled baking sheet, leaving about 5cm of space for each gnocchi to grow. Brush the gnocchi with a little more oil and bake for 20–25 minutes, until crisp and slightly golden.
Serve the gnocchi warm, on nice big plates, drizzled liberally with the pistou. Scatter the crispy fennel and sun-dried tomatoes on top with a little more pistou, and finish with some chopped roasted hazelnuts.
Method
Begin by chopping the squash into smallish chunks and cutting or peeling off the skin.
Place the squash on a baking tray, drizzle with olive oil and season. Roast for around 30mins at 180C until soft when you cut with a knife.
Set aside to cool slightly. Meanwhile make the flax egg by grinding the flax seeds in a spice grinder or food processor and whisk together in a cup with the water. Leave for around 5 minutes until it becomes gelatinous.
Put the squash into a large mixing bowl and mash until only a few lumps remain.
Add in the flax egg and combine, the slowly add in the flour and bring together.
Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and kneed gently adding a little more flour if necessary to form a smooth dough that isn’t too sticky.
Divide into 4 and roll each piece out with your hands to a form long, thin sausage.
Cut into 2cm pieces. Pinch the ends together with your fingers to create a slight crescent shape and imprint with the back of a fork.
Bring a large saucepan of water to boil, add in the gnocchi and simmer for 2-3 mins. When they rise to the top and float, they are done.
Whilst the gnocchi is cooking, wash and chop the spinach and tomatoes. Gently cook together in a frying pan with the garlic until the spinach wilts.
Spoon the gnocchi onto a warm serving dish using a slotted spoon and gently mix in the spinach and tomatoes.
Method
Heat the oil on a moderate heat in a large pan. Add the onion, garlic and chilli and cook gently until the onion is soft and the garlic has browned a little.
Add the spices and stir. Leave to cook for a minute – this helps to release the flavours and prevent bitterness.
Add the tofu and mash with a fork to break it down into smallish chunks. Stir to combine and leave to cook for a couple of minutes before adding the vinegar and soy/aminos. Stir again.
Allow the scramble to cook gently for 20 minutes, or until you have the consistency you want. The longer you cook it, the drier it will be.
To finish, add the thyme and black pepper.
Preparation
Serves 6.
Preheat grill to medium-high.
Method
Grill tomatoes and bell pepper, turning a few times, until they soften and the skins are blistered and charred in spots, about 8 minutes.
Transfer the pepper to a plastic bag and let it steam until cool enough to handle. Peel off the skin; cut the pepper in half and discard the stem and seeds. Place one half in a blender.
When the tomatoes are cool enough to handle, core and roughly chop. Add the tomatoes, skins and all, to the blender.
Add half the cucumber to the blender along with bread, garlic, vinegar to taste, parsley, paprika or cayenne, salt and pepper.
Blend until smooth. Add oil and blend until well combined.
Refrigerate until room temperature or chilled, at least 1 hour.
Before serving, finely dice the remaining cucumber and bell pepper; stir half of each into the gazpacho and garnish with the remaining cucumber and bell pepper.
Preparation
 Serves 1
Method
Slice beetroot and pepper, toss with tomatoes and salad leaves.
Squeeze over half a lemon and a good drizzle of sesame oil and sprinkle with pistachios.
Preparation
This recipe serves 1
Method
Grate the carrots
Slice the chilli
Put the oil in a pan
Add the Rye, Jiru and Hing
When the seeds pop, add the grated carrots and chilli
Stir
Add the turmeric
Add salt to taste
Cook for a few minutes
Enjoy with another meal, have it with Rotli like I do, or get creative and perhaps use it as a filling in a sandwich 🙂
Preparation
Makes 2 Large Pizzas.
Method
First, get all your ingredients together and find yourself a large heavy based frying pan – you’ll need it to be around 26cm. Preheat your grill to maximum.
Slice the red onion and put it into the frying pan with a little oil. Tear the mushrooms into pieces and roughly chop the garlic, then add to the pan with the thyme leaves and cook for 4–5 minutes, turning every so often, until the mushrooms are charred and crispy and cooked through. Remove and put aside for later.
Next, make the cashew ricotta: put all the ingredients into the bowl of a food processor with 3 tablespoons of cold water and blend until completely smooth – this should take 2–5 minutes, depending on how powerful your machine is. It should be the consistency of normal ricotta. Scoop out into a bowl and wash the processor bowl.
Now make the dough. Put the four and water into the processor with a good pinch of salt and a tablespoon of olive oil and pulse until the dough comes together in a ball. Tip it out and bring it together in your hands.
Get your frying pan on a medium to high heat. If you have two pans about the right size you can do both the pizzas at once, otherwise you can do one after the other, as they cook quickly.
Cut the dough into two equal halves and cover one half for later.
Put the other half on to a floured work surface and use a rolling pin to roll it out into a 1cm thick circle about the size of your frying pan.
Drizzle a little oil into the hot pan, then carefully lift in the dough. Leave it on the heat for about 3 minutes, so the base is starting to cook, while you quickly top the pizza.
Spoon half the tomato passata over, then the mushrooms. Dot with the cashew cheese and the olives.
Pop the pizza under the grill for 4–5 minutes, until it is cooked through and the cashew cheese is browned.
Repeat with the second pizza.
To finish, strew with some rocket leaves and cut into generous slices.
Method
1. Fill two small tumblers with 2 ice cubes
2. Add all of the ingredients into a dry shaker (no ice) apart from the soda water.
3. Give the shaker a good shake for 15 seconds
4. Add 4 ice cubes to the shaker and continue to shake for another 15 seconds.
5. Strain over your prepared glasses and use a spoon to tease out any spare froth at the bottom
6. Top with soda water!
Preparation
Makes about 24 cookies.
Method
Combine all the dry ingredients in a large bowl.
Then stir together the wet ingredients in a smaller bowl.
Mix the wet ingredients into dry.
Form ½ inch balls and press onto a parchment lined baking sheet.
Bake at 180°c for 7-10 minutes.
Cool and serve!
Method
Drain the chickpeas and pop into your food processor.
Add peanut butter, rice milk, lemon juice, garlic, salt and pepper.
Start pulsing and slowly add the olive oil as you go along.
If the texture is too thick add a touch more milk.
Season according to your taste buds.
The hummus is ready when everything is mixed well and you have achieved a smooth thick texture.
Sprinkle with paprika and a drizzle of olive oil. Enjoy!
Method
1) Heat the sugar gently over a low heat and stir ever 10 – 15 seconds. As the sugar heats, it will clump up and go lumpy so don’t worry because you’re not doing anything wrong! Stick with it and it will gradually begin to melt.
2) The sugar should have all melted within 5 – 10 minutes and as soon as it has melted and turned golden in colour, remove from the heat.
3) Carefully add the margarine and stir well to combine. It will spit to be sure not to get caught by the melting margarine.
4) Once this has melted and been stirred in, do the same with the milk and sugar.
5) Remove to a heat-safe jar and pop into the refrigerator to cool (you can stick it in the freezer for the first 10 minutes or so if you are in a rush for it to cool).
6) Whilst the sauce is cooling, melt your chocolate and brush the insides of the moulds with the melted chocolate. Put them in the fridge or freezer for a few minutes to cool and firm.
7) Once your sauce is cooled and thickened ready for use, fill the moulds but be sure to leave a small gap at the top for you to encase the caramel with chocolate.
8) After filling the moulds with caramel, finish by covering with the remaining melted chocolate and be sure to fill in any gaps.
9) Cool in the fridge for 30 minutes – 1 hour and then they are ready to eat.
Preparation
Finely grind the flax seeds in a spice grinder or high-speed food processor, whisk together with the water in a small bowl and set aside. The mixture should become gloopy and gelatinous.
Mix the remaining dry ingredients together in a large mixing bowl. Before you mix in the wet ingredients, begin heating a frying pan on a medium-high heat and put the frozen berries in a small saucepan on a low heat. Stir occasionally and add in the maple syrup whilst you continue making the pancakes.
Make a well in the dry ingredients and pour in the flax mixture and half the almond milk. Using a fork mix together the flax and milk and slowly begin to incorporate the flour. Add the remaining milk a bit at a time until everything is combined.
Put 1/2 tsp or so of coconut oil in the hot frying pan and pour in just under half a cup of the pancake batter. Fry for about 2 minutes until the bottom has browned nicely then flip and further for a further minute or two.
Keep the pancakes warm under the grill until you have fried them all. Serve warm with the berry compôte.
Method
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil and cook the spaghetti (I use Garofalo) al dente.
In the meantime, blanch the tomatoes in boiling water until the skin breaks – immediately remove them from the boiling water, and plunge them into cold (I do mine in the kitchen sink!).
Remove the seeds and skin and cut the tomatoes into quarters.
In a food processor place the rinsed and dried capers, almonds, garlic, basil and chilli and blitz to a fine paste. To achieve a smooth finish of the pesto add 4 of the 8 tbsps. of  EVOO.
When the pasta is cooked, in a large pan place the diced tomatoes, the pesto and warm through at low heat, add the pasta, stir well and (to add some crunchiness) sprinkle some bread crumbs.
Serve immediately. Wonderful!
Method
1. Heat the oven to 200 / 180 Fan.
2. First, make the tomato sauce. Fry the onion in the oil for 7-8 minutes until softening, add the garlic and cook for another minute.
3. Add the tomatoes and chilli flakes, stir and remove from the heat.
4. Meanwhile, cook the pasta for 10 minutes until al dente. Drain.
5. While the pasta is cooking, make the ‘tuna’. Roughly mash the chickpeas with the back of a fork, and then stir in all the other ingredients. Season to taste.
6. Now, combine the cooked pasta with the ‘tuna’ and the tomato sauce and tip into a baking dish.
7. Combine the crushed crisps and vegan cheese together and sprinkle them on top.
8. Bake in the oven for 15-20 mins or until the top is golden and bubbling.
9. Sprinkle some parsley over the top to serve.
Did you enjoy this dish? Check out more vegan pasta recipes.
Preparation
In a medium bowl, add the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt and stir to combine.
In separate bowl add milk, vinegar and vanilla. Pour liquid mixture into dry and whisk until smooth. 
Let the batter rest for 10 minutes in the fridge.
Pour about ½ cup (65 grams) of batter onto greased nonstick pan. Cook pancakes until golden on both sides.
In a bowl whisk the Violife Cocospread with the coconut cream until creamy. 
Pour chocolate over the pancakes and garnish with chopped strawberries and blueberries.  
Method
Combine all ingredients in a blender.
Blend until smooth and then pour into popsicle molds.
If you have a bit of pop mix left, you can drink it. It’s yummy!
Freeze for about 4 hours and then enjoy!
Makes 4 pops at 1/2 cup size each.
Note: Not all protein powders are the same. Some may be sweetened, some not. If you’ve used your favorite vanilla powder in a smoothie before, try to gauge whether or not you’ll want to sweeten your pops based on how sweet your smoothie was.
By Lizz Clements
Preparation
To make the crust
To make the crust, sift the flour into a bowl, and stir in the sugar. Then work the vegan butter / margarine in with your fingertips.
Combine the milled linseed and the water. Let the linseed soak in the water for a few minutes. Then add the orange rind to the linseed.
Stir in the linseed and rind mix to the flour, butter / margarine and sugar to form a firm dough. If it is too sticky, add a touch more water.
Knead the dough, then roll it out. Line a tart or flan tin (one about 20 cm wide), ideally one with a loose base. Put the tin in the fridge to chill while making the filling.
Preheat the oven to 180⁰C / 350⁰C / Gas 4.
To make the filling:
To make the filling melt the syrup, sugar, chocolate and butter in a small pan. Keep stirring the mix and keep the heat low so it doesn’t burn. Once melted and mixed in, take off the heat.
Blend the silken tofu in a food processer / blender, and add to the syrup, sugar, chocolate and butter mix. Also add the vanilla essence.
Take the pastry case from the fridge. Sprinkle the pecan nuts into the pastry case. Then pour the chocolate mixture into the pastry case. Give the tin a little tap to remove any air bubbles and even out the mixture.
Put the pie tin on a baking sheet and bake for 50-60 minutes or until filling is set. Leave the pie in the tin for 10 minutes once baked, then remove from tin (if using a loose base tin).
Decorate with your choice of pecans, chocolate shavings, orange rind or edible flowers.
Method
Pour your oats and plant milk into a pan on a medium heat. (I typically go by the 1: 1.5 ratio: 1 cup of oats plus 1.5 cups of plant milk, but do whatever works for you.)
Heat until thickened until your liking
Pour into a bowl and top with sliced banana and your choice of seeds – pumpkin, sesame (as per the photo), chia, flax and sunflower all work well.
Variations: Play around with toppings to keep it varied. Cinnamon, nuts, dried fruit,berries and maple syrup all taste great.
Method
Halve the avocado, peel or gently run a thin spoon between the avocado flesh and skin and scoop out the flesh, cut into slices and sprinkle with lime. Season the red cabbage with lime juice and some ginger syrup. Peel and slice the pineapple.
Grill the Sensational sausages and pineapple in a grill pan or BBQ, see instructions on the package
Cut the buns lengthwise open and lightly coat them with the vegan mayonnaise. Cover with lettuce leaves, avocado slices, grilled pieces pineapple and red cabbage.
Place a grilled sausage on top and garnish with sweet chili sauce and coriander.
Method
1. Give the quinoa a good rinse through in a sieve and then add to a small saucepan and cover with 150 ml of cold water ( about twice its volume). Season with a little salt ( plus a pinch of smoked paprika if you have traditional quinoa) and boil for between 12 and 15 minutes until it has swelled and you can see a little “halo” around each grain.
2. Meanwhile you can drain the peas using the same sieve ( reserve the liquid if using chickpeas – this aquafaba is great for vegan mayo or baking).
3. Grate about 1/2 of the orange zest into the quinoa pan and then peel the orange and cut into slices or segments – the choice is yours. Reserve any juice.
4. Now prep’ your veg: Remove the outer leaves of the sprouts and slice fairly finely.
5. Slice the spring onions, using as much of the green as possible.
6. Crush the garlic and pick the parsley leaves from the stalks.
7. Once the quinoa is cooked, and has absorbed all the water, add the Carlin peas ( or chickpeas) and the vinegar, set aside with a lid on so that it steams.
8. Now take a frying pan, heat up 1/2 of the olive oil and add the sliced sprouts, 1/2 of the garlic and spring onion. Fry briefly, just until you can really smell the garlic.
9. Mix together the tahini with the remaining olive oiled garlic, the orange juice and season.
10. Now serve up the quinoa and peas, stirring in about 1/2 of your sprouts and then topping with the rest of them, the orange, the parsley, the pumpkin seeds and chilli flakes. Taste and balance the seasoning.
Serve hot or at room temperature. Perfect for a lunch box too.
Preparation
Place all the ingredients apart from the instant buckwheat into a large bowl and mix well with a spoon. Add the instant buckwheat and mix together.
Place the mixture onto the parchment paper and fold and press down to create a rectangular shape.
Tip: press down on top of the parchment paper to avoid getting your hands messy.
Fold and wrap the contents in parchment paper and place in the fridge for 1 hour. Remove from the fridge and cut your dough into 4 pieces.sprinkle some pink peppercorn or chilli flakes.
Cut the parchment paper to fit the bar, twist the corners and take it with you on the go!
Preparation
For the Chickpea Croutons
Preheat the oven to 180C/Gas mark 4
Drain the chickpeas and tip onto a baking tray
Drizzle over the oil, paprika and garlic powder. Add a little salt. Mix them all around well so all the chickpeas are covered in the oil & seasoning.
Bake for 20 mins, then stir and put back in the oven. Bake for a further 15 mins or until crispy. Depending on the day & your oven you might need to bake longer. Keep stirring until the chickpeas are crispy but avoid burning them.
For the Salad Dressing
In a jar with a lid, mix together all the ingredients and shake well.
Add a little water and mix- add more if needed so the dressing is creamy, yet pourable.
Taste the dressing. Add more salt, lemon juice or maple syrup to balance the flavours as needed
For the Salad
Brush a griddle or fry pan with a tiny bit of oil. Griddle or fry the tofu on each side
Tear the lettuce. Then on a nice plate arrange the lettuce & tofu. Sprinkle with herbs. Drizzle over the dressing and toss some chickpea ‘croutons’ over.
Serve with extra dressing on the side.
This recipe serves 2.
Preparation
In a small bowl mix together the Chaat Masala, red pepper, red onion, mint leaves, coriander leaves, birds eye chilli, lemon juice, mango chutney, nigella seeds and a pinch of salt and pepper
Spread half the vegan butter generously on each slice of bread. Top each slice with the vegan cheese and spread a layer of the spice mixture on four slices; divide the Whitworths Protein by Nature Indian Lentil Dhal between the other four slices, topping with the sliced tomato.
Make four sandwiches by lightly pressing the slices together. Spread the rest of the butter on the outsides of the sandwiches.
Use a toasted-sandwich maker if you have one. Alternatively, heat a large non-stick frying pan over a medium heat. Add one sandwich at a time. Cover with the lid and allow to cook for 2.5 minutes or until the base goes crispy and golden brown. Turnover and repeat.
Serve warm with chutney, ketchup and/or vegan yogurt with a splash of hot sauce
Method
Chocolate Nests:
Melt the chocolate in a bowl over a pan of boiling water. Stir in the desiccated coconut.
Place 1 heaped tablespoon of mixture in a greased cupcake tin and mould into a cupcake shape. Put in the freezer for 5 minutes to set.
Mini Eggs:
Melt the chocolate with 1tsp of coconut oil in a bowl over a pan of boiling water. Using a pastry brush, brush the Easter egg mould with a layer of chocolate then tap down on the work surface to get rid of any air bubbles. Set aside and let cool. You should have just under half the melted chocolate left in the bowl.
Make the Sea Salt Caramel – Put the dates, vanilla, 2tbsp coconut oil, water and sea salt in a processor and cream until smooth and caramel-like. Place in the fridge for 10 minutes.
Once the chocolate has set in the moulds, spoon the sea salt caramel inside them, making sure not to overfill.
Re-melt the chocolate in the pan and cover the moulds with a layer of chocolate and smooth with a pallet knife. Leave to set until completely hard.
Pop out of their moulds by tapping them on a work surface or pushing them out and arrange in the chocolate nests.
Method
1. Start with the mayo by combining mayo, miso, rice vinegar, ginger, soy, Shaoxing vinegar, sesame oil before tossing in the prepared vegetables
2. Bake Quorn Crunchy Fillet Burgers as per on pack instructions
3. While fillets are baking make up the glaze to toss freshly cooked burgers when cooked
4. Toast buns and stack with the slaw and Quorn Fillet Burger dusting with sesame seeds.
Preparation
Method
Rinse the chickpeas thoroughly, then drain & transfer to a bowl
Rinse, dry, and then finely chop the coriander before adding it to the chickpeas
Rinse and dry the red amaranth (or sprouts) then add to the bowl
Add the lemon juice and mix well
If adding the chilli, thinly slice 2-3 pieces and set aside for the garnish
Dice the rest of the chilli and add to the bowl of chickpeas
Mix well, then garnish with the extra chilli pieces and a few more red amaranth leaves
Serve!
Preparation
Add 2 tbsp of the oil to a large frying pan, then add the chopped onion and garlic. Sauté on a medium heat for 5-8 minutes, until they start to caramelise.
Add the chopped mushrooms and cook for another 10 minutes, until they have shrunk in size and all the water has evaporated.
Crumble the Tiba Tempeh block, either using a knife or a food processor. You’re looking for a consistency that’s a bit like mince.
Add the tempeh “mince” to the pan along with the soy sauce and nutritional yeast or Marmite, if using. Cook for another 5 minutes, then season with salt and pepper.
Pour the mixture into a bowl and add the cooked brown rice and oat flour. Mix everything together until you have a fairly sticky mixture.
With wet hands, roll the mix into individual balls about the size of a golf ball. Repeat the process until you have used up all the mixture.
Heat up the remaining oil and fry the tempeh balls for a few minutes on each side, until slightly golden brown. You might need to cook them in batches.
Serve hot with your favourite tomato sauce and the pasta of your choice. Delicious.
Preparation
Equipment
Bowl and water for soaking the almonds
Measuring cups
Food processor
Jam straining bag
Glass bottle with airtight lid
Method
Add the almonds to a bowl and fully cover with cold water. Soak overnight or for at least 8 hours; you may need to top the water up the next day if you’re not using them immediately, as they soak it up and expand.
* Time Saving Tip *
In a hurry? Pour boiling water over the almonds, soak for two hours and they will soften quick enough to use.
Drain and rinse until the water runs clear. The nuts will have expanded and you’ll now have almost 3 cups worth, so measure out 1 cup and add to the food processor.
Blitz for 20 seconds until they’re broken into tiny crumb-like pieces, then pour in 3 cups of chilled water and blitz again for another 30 seconds. Stretch the jam-straining bag over the edges of the bowl, and pour the mixture in.
After two minutes, gently squeeze the outside of the bag to get as much milk out of the pulp as possible. Set the pulp aside and repeat the steps twice more.
* Time Saving Tip *
If you’re making this regularly, using a jam bag stand makes the process easier, this is mine.
Once you’ve finished, rinse your straining bag and leave to dry naturally. Look after it this way and it can be reused over and over again.
* Top Tip *
You can use the leftover pulp as almond ‘flour’ for other recipes like our ginger nut crunch muesli. Simply spread out on a baking tray and ‘dry out’ for 1 hour in a 125c oven. Once cool, store in an airtight jar.
Pour the milk into glass containers that have airtight lids, I use Kilner bottles. Store in the fridge for up to 5 days; as the milk doesn’t contain emulsifiers, it will naturally separate in the bottle. Simply shake well each time before using and enjoy the goodness of your own homemade almond milk – it’s perfect for breakfast, fresh fruit smoothies, ice lollies, or as an everyday delicious milk substitute!
Method
Heat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
Sift the flour into a mixing bowl and mix in the remaining dry ingredients.
Stir in the wet ingredients, then combine into a dough using your hands. It should come together to form a smooth ball, but if it feels a little dry, add more water a few drops at a time.
Roll flat between two sheets of parchment paper (this saves using extra flour – the dough is quite sticky), to about 2mm.
Cut the cookies into shapes or straws as desired.
Place on a parchment-lined baking tray and cook on the middle shelf for 15-20 minutes, or until crisp.
NOTES: The dough can be made in advance and kept wrapped in cling film in the fridge. If using sun dried tomatoes kept in oil, mop up the excess with kitchen paper and adjust the amount of oil in the recipe as necessary.
Method
Rinse the rice well using a sieve until the water runs clear. Drain thoroughly in a colander and allow to dry for 20 minutes.
In a medium saucepan, combine the rice with the cold water and bring to a boil over a high heat. Cover and cook over a moderate heat for 10 minutes.
Reduce to a low heat and cook for a further 10 minutes. The rice should be tender and the water absorbed.
Remove from the heat but keep covered and stand for 15 minutes.
(Alternatively, if you have a rice cooker, that can be used to cook the rice.)
Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, combine the coconut milk, sugar, salt, cardamom pods and optional mirin. Warm over a low heat, stirring to dissolve the sugar.
Remove the cardamom pods and allow the coconut mixture to cool a little.
Add to the rice and gently stir through. Keep stirring until all the liquid is incorporated. Cover the rice with a clean damp tea towel.
Take spoonfuls of rice, one at a time, and shape into rectangles with rounded ends. Press firmly but gently without squashing the rice.
Brush the top of each piece of nigiri with jam and top with a fruit slice, applying just enough pressure to secure it in place.
Do not refrigerate the nigiri before serving. Consume the same day. Serve with small dipping bowls of raspberry coulis, if desired.
Did you like this recipe? Explore more vegan seafood ideas.
Preparation
tibits at home: stylish vegetarian cuisine is a sumptuous cookbook, split into four seasonal sections, containing 50 recipes that will delight all loyal tibits fans, as well as those who are new to the brand. 80 per cent of tibits’ menu is vegan and many of the recipes in the book are also vegan – good news for the rapidly increasing number of vegans in the UK.
Method
Cook the lentils in salted water, for about 18 minutes.
Wash and peel the carrots and chop into 1 cm dice. Add to the lentils and cook for another 2 minutes, then drain immediately. Rinse under running cold water and drain well.
Wash the courgettes, chop into 1 cm dice and add to the lentils.
Finely chop the sundried tomatoes. Mix all remaining dressing ingredients and add the chopped tomatoes.
Mix the lentils with the dressing and season to taste, with salt and pepper.
Tips: these small, black lentils glisten when they cook, which makes them look like Beluga caviar. Since they do not disintegrate when cooked, they work equally well in appetisers, side dishes or as garnish. Tikka curry paste is a popular ingredient in Northern Indian cuisine and mainly used for sauces and marinades. Add some olive oil if desired.
Preparation
This is the same cheese recipe featured in my Cheese on Toast, just in another guise. 
Method
There are lots of recipes for potato cheese out there, but this is the one I have adapted from various different ones*.
Peel one large potato and one large carrot
Chop into small chunks (carrot smaller than the potato as it is harder)
Boil until soft
Put 3 tablespoons of the potato water into a food processor
Drain potatoes and carrots and pour into the processor
Add: 1/2 cup of oil (I use olive), 1/2 cup of nutritional yeast, juice of half a lemon, teaspoon of garlic granules, dash of celery salt, cracked pepper
Blend!
You can eat this cheese straight away with tortilla chips, pour over nachos (maybe chuck it in the oven for a bit to make sure the cheese is really warm) or use as your cheese topping on pizza… Spread as liberally as you like! Sometimes you feel like more or less cheese, depending on your mood and/or the pizza toppings. The photos above are both with the same cheese… Just lots more on one that the other.
When cooked to your liking, remove and eat!
*According to everything I’ve read, this cheese can last up to 7 days in the fridge. Mine has never hung around that long, so I would say use within a couple of days to be on the safe side.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Allow the pumpkin to cool. The avocado adds creaminess, and is nutrient rich.
Combine all ingredients until smooth and creamy.
Optional: for a protein burst, add half a cup cooked (and cooled) quinoa when blending.
Serves four.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C.
Cut the polonies in half lengthwise. Score 3 or 4 deep lines across the polonies and decorate with pineapple pieces and cherries. Push two cloves into each onion half and add to the pan along with the bay leaves.
Mix the brown sugar mustard and pineapple juice to a think paste and pour over the decorated polonies.
Roast the “game on” in the oven for 40 minutes, basting frequently with the glaze and pan juices, until cooked through and golden-brown.
Method
Cut the stiff spine out of your kale.
Toss all your ingredients into a food processor and blend until it makes a smooth paste.
Serve slightly chilled or at room temperature with bread.
You can also serve in a sandwich, with pasta like a pesto or over baked tofu… it’s a pretty versatile recipe.
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 6
Method
Microwave sweet potatoes until soft. Allow to cool and peel, set aside.
Add the remaining ingredients to a food processor and pulse until finely chopped. Mix together with the sweet potato and form into fritters.
Lightly fry until golden brown and transfer to a baking tray. Put in the oven on 180 degrees Celsius for 15-20 minutes.
Serve with a big dollop of hummus and vegetables.
Preparation
De-stalk the kale or cavolo nero and cut into pieces. Peel the carrot, parsnip and beetroot and then, using the peeler, slice the vegetables thinly.Place the vegetables onto the baking tray and coat in the oil, add the cloves of garlic and drizzle with the lemon juice.
Bake for 20 minutes until crispy.
Once out of the oven season with salt and pepper. I added a little more lemon juice afterwards too.
Leave to cool before you eat them.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F/Gas 4.
Prepare the flax egg by mixing 1 Tbsp ground flax seeds with 3 Tbsp of water. Set aside.
In a food processor, mix together all the dry ingredients: flour, sugar, salt, baking powder, bicarbonate soda, cinnamon and ginger.
Peel butternut squash. Remove seeds.
Grate butternut squash with a cheese grater. Mix with dry ingredients.
Add oil, lemon juice, flax egg and pumpkin seeds. Mix until all is well blended
Grease a 900g (2lb) bread / loaf pan.
Tip bread mix into the tin. Level the top. Cook for around 50-55 mins until a skewer inserted into the middle of the bread comes out clean.
Once cooked leave to cool down for 15 mins then turn out onto a wire rack to cool completely.
Method
Heat a large soup pot on medium-low heat then add oil.
Saute carrots, garlic, scallions and ginger for 5 minutes. Then add potatoes, corn, plantains and beans and saute for 3-5 minutes.
Add all spices except Scotch bonnet and saute for 30 seconds.
Add remaining ingredients and bring soup to a boil, then reduce to medium heat and simmer covered for 20 minutes.
While the soup is coming to a boil, mix dumpling ingredients in a small bowl.
Start with mixing the flour, baking powder, salt and pepper. Then add oil and 3 tablespoons of water. Do not over mix. The dough should be slightly dry. Add extra water if needed, 1 teaspoon at a time.
When the soup is turned down to simmer, add dumplings 1 heaping teaspoon at a time.
Remove Scotch bonnet, scallions and thyme stalks before serving.
Love this recipe? Then why not sign up to Veganuary to have more delicious recipes delivered straight to your inbox!
Method
Gently melt the coconut oil on a very low heat.
Add cocoa, sweetener and stir until smooth.
Poor in a small dish lined with baking paper.
Pop all your nuts and raisins in small plastic bag and bash a few times to crush them. Sprinkle on the chocolate mix and place in the freezer for 10-15 min. (Make sure it stays flat.)
Once frozen break into pieces and enjoy loads!
Method
1. Preheat oven to 180c gas mark 4. Put 12 cupcake cases in a cupcake tin.
2. Place the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, spread, sugar and egg replacer in a large bowl. Beat together with an electric whisk until smooth and creamy.
3. Divide the mixture evenly between the cases. Bake for 15-20 minutes until risen and springy to the touch. Leave to cool on a wire rack.
4. For the topping, melt the milk chocolate, either in a microwave or over a pan of simmering water. Cool slightly. Beat together the icing sugar and spread until smooth. Add the cooled melted chocolate and beat until evenly mixed.
5. Pipe the topping onto the cooled cakes. Decorate with the grated chocolate before serving.
(The key to melting chocolate in a microwave is to not overcook. Microwave for about 30 seconds, take the bowl out and mix the chocolate until it is all melted. If there are still some lumps put back in the microwave for 10 to 15 seconds and mix again. There should always be some lumps when you remove from the microwave that you stir out. Do not melt the chocolate completely by microwaving.)
Preparation
1. Place the flaxseed in a small bowl with 3 tbsp. hot water and whisk together. Put to one side for 5 minutes to gel together.
2. Whisk together the flour, salt, flaxseed and Alpro Oat Unsweetened until perfectly smooth.
3. Rest the batter for 30 minutes. When you come to use the batter you may need to add a splash more milk to loosen it until you have a good consistency.
4. Add the frozen berries to a medium-sized sauce pan and heat through until hot and thawed. Add in the maple syrup and blitz with a stick blender until smooth.
5. Heat a little of the vegan butter in a non-stick pancake pan over a medium heat. When the pan is hot add in a ladleful of the batter, swirling to coat the pan and cook for 2 minutes or until the pancake can be loosened and flipped to cook the other side for 30 seconds. Continue with the remaining batter.
6. Serve the pancake with a drizzle of the warmed berry sauce and a dollop of Alpro Plain Unsweetened yogurt.
Preparation
Soak the split channa dal for one hour prior to making this dish.
Check out Jackie’s website, The Hungry Gecko for more tantalising vegan street food recipe ideas!
Method
Put half of the prepped onion into a heavy bottomed pan with a little oil. Saute until softened, then add courgettes, turmeric, salt and drained channa. Cover with water and bring to boil. Simmer for 1-2 hours until channa is soft (but not mushy and falling apart). Add more water as dal cooks to maintain a soup like consistency.
In a small pan, add oil with cumin and asafoetida. Fry until seeds splutter, then add fresh or dried chillies, diced onions, tomatoes and sambhar masala powder, and cook until onions and tomatoes and completely soft, and oil has separated.
Pour tempering mixture over the cooked dal and stir well. Serve scattered with fresh coriander.
Enjoyed this recipe? Follow this link to read more amazing vegan curry recipes!
Preparation
Give yourself 45 minutes for soaking and marinating the wakame (directions below).
Method
Cook the rice according to the packet instructions and set aside.
Place the wakame in a small bowl and soak in warm water for 15 minutes to reconstitute and soften.
Remove from the bowl and squeeze out any remaining liquid.
Whisk together vinegar, rice syrup, shoyu, ginger juice, and sesame oil. Adjust seasonings to your taste.
Toss wakame with dressing and allow to marinate for 30 minutes.
Toss marinated wakame with the salad greens and cooked rice.
Top with the toasted sesame seeds. Serve at room temperature or chilled.
Method
1. For the swiss roll. Preheat your oven to 160ºC Fan/Gas 3. Line a shallow baking tray approximately 30cm x 20cm with greaseproof paper.
2. Sift the flour and cocoa powder into a large bowl, then add the cornflour, bicarbonate of soda, baking powder, salt and sugar and stir together.
3. Pour the milk, vinegar, oil and vanilla extract into a jug and whisk until combined.
4. Add the milk mixture to the flour mixture and stir well with a light hand, be careful not to overwork the batter then pour into the prepared baking tray and bake in the oven for approximately 25 minutes until cooked through and a skewer comes out clean.
5. Meanwhile for the buttercream. Add the icing sugar and butter into a food processor and blitz together. Add the soya milk, a little at a time until the buttercream starts to combine and is smooth. You want a medium to firm texture.
6. Once the cake is cooked. Leave to cool for around 5 minutes and then carefully roll into a swiss roll shape, keeping the greaseproof paper on. When cooled after around half an hour, gently unroll the log and spread with black cherry jam and the buttercream. Once again carefully re-roll the cake this time gently removing the greaseproof paper as you roll. Once rolled place the log on a piece of clingfilm and roll tightly and place in the fridge to chill until needed, you could actually freeze the cake at this stage for half an hour.
7. To assemble. Slice the swiss roll into 8-10 slices and place inside a medium size glass bowl. Drain the cherries , reserving the juice, and add to the bowl then drizzle over some of the reserved juice.
8. For the custard. Add the soya milk and vanilla extract into a pan and gently warm. Remove from the heat and add 1-2 tablespoons of the warmed milk into a jug with the Birds custard powder and sugar. Stir until you have a smooth paste and then add the rest of the milk, whisk and then pour back into the pan. Heat gently until thickened and then remove from the heat. Leave to cool for 10 minutes then pour over the sponge mixture, place in the fridge and leave to set.
9. For the topping. Remove the lids off the canned coconut and scoop the solid coconut cream into a bowl (you do not want any of the coconut water) then add the icing sugar and whisk until smooth. Pile the cream topping onto the trifle, spread evenly to the outer edges..
10. Garnish with pistachios and rose petals
NOTES
1. You could use ready made custard but this will have a looser set.
2. An alternative garnish would be with leftover cherries and chocolate shavings.
Method
Slice the onion in rings and bell peppers in strips. Grill the onion shortly and set aside.
Cut the burger buns lengthwise and grill both sides until grill marks are showing.
Grill the burgers according to the instructions on the package and cover them with a slice of vegan cheese while they are still warm.
Spread the bun bottoms with guacamole. Cover with lamb’s lettuce and bell pepper strips and place the burger on it.
Add onion, tomato salsa and if you like it spicy add some jalapeno slices. Place the lids on top.
Method
In a dry large saucepan, toast the cashew nuts until they are lightly coloured. This helps release the cashew nut oils and makes them more fragrant. Set aside.
In a large bowl mix together all the salad ingredients.
In a small cup or small bowl, mix together all the salad dressing ingredients. You can use the back of a spoon to mix the peanut butter in with the remaining ingredients. Season to taste, adding more chilli, sweetener and pepper as required.
Dress the salad and garnish with the toasted cashews, sesame/chia seeds and sliced spring onion.
Enjoy!
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan salad recipes.
Preparation
I used chickpea brine that I had frozen and then defrosted in this recipe with great results. Remember to save your brine!
Method
First make the mint coconut whip. In a stand mixer add the coconut cream and peppermint extract. Beat on high for about 5 minutes using the balloon whisk attachment.
Once the coconut cream begins to whip add the food colouring. Whip again for another 3 minutes or until soft peaks appear. Scrape out into a container and set aside. Wipe out the mixer bowl.
Next prepare the meringue, pour the chickpea brine into the bowl of the mixer and beat on high with the balloon whisk for 5-8 minutes.
Once the soft peaks start to appear, add the cream of tartar. Keep whipping for another 5 minutes, adding the icing sugar in small amounts.
Once the meringue has formed stiff peaks, fold in the mint coconut whip using a spatula. Carefully fold in the chocolate chips.
Pour the ice cream into a container and immediately place in the freezer for minimum 8 hours, preferably overnight. Remove from the freezer 5 minutes before serving.
Method
1. Add all ingredients in to a cocktail shaker and shake well.
2. Double strain through the cocktail shaker strainer and a wire mesh strainer in to a Martini glass.
3. Add optional mint leave garnish.
4. Serve!
Method
For the cake:
Grease 2 round 8, 9 or 10″ cake tins and preheat oven to about 185 C.
Stir all the dry ingredients together (flour, cocoa powder, sugar and baking powder) and then add the wet ingredients in (plant milk, oil and vanilla) remembering to stir just until mixed. Spoon the cake mixture into a prepared tin. Repeat process for the second layer.
Tap each tray onto the work surface to stop the raising agents working too quickly – you will see the bubbles pop. Bake about 20 minutes.
Cool for about 10-15 minutes and then remove cakes from tins and cool completely on a wire rack. Put the layers into a plastic air tight container for at least 2 hours before decorating.
For the icing:
Using an electric mixer (or a hand-held mixer), whip together the vegetable fat, margarine and vanilla until creamy (about 1 minute). Add half of the icing sugar and all the cocoa powder.
Continue mixing (slowly at first and then bringing up to speed) mixing until combined. Add the rest of the icing sugar and slowly drip in the plant-based milk until it reaches your desired consistency.
You do not need to add all of the plant-based milk if you feel it is soft enough!
Decorating:
Spread some of the chocolate icing between the 2 cake sponges and sandwich together. Spread the remaining icing on the top and along the sides of the cake if you wish. Add vegan sweets, sprinkles and chocolates to your heart’s content!
Did you like this cake? Explore more vegan desserts.
Method
1. Pre-heat your oven to 180.C
2. Melt the butter in a heavy bottomed pan, add the cloves, cardamom, black pepper and cinnamon, fry for 1 minute over a medium heat, then add the onions and salt. Cook for 2 – 3 mins, then add the garlic & ginger and cook for a further minute.
3. Add the tomato puree to the pan, with the cumin, coriander and turmeric, mix well and cook for 2 mins whilst stirring. Pour in the soy cream, mix well and simmer over a gentle heat for 30 mins.
4. Meanwhile place the Meatless Farm Chicken breast on a lightly oiled baking tray, roast in the oven for 12 -15 mins. Remove the chicken from the oven, leave to cool slightly before cutting into chunks. Tip the chicken into the curry sauce. Cook for 10 mins and then you’re ready to serve.
5. Garnish with fresh coriander and serve with warm roti’s and fluffy rice.
Method
Cut the courgettes on the diagonal, brush with oil, griddle on a high heat
If you do not have a griddle pan you can grill the courgette
Steam the broccoli until only just cooked
Purée the garlic using a pestle and mortar, add the lemon juice, oil and salt to taste
Finely chop the coriander
Toast the pine nuts in a dry frying pan on a medium heat
Mix the broccoli, courgette and dressing well
If you are looking for more courgette recipes to try, we have lots of options!
If you have a sweet tooth, why not bake your own Chocolate Courgette Cake?
Or, if you would like something more savoury, we recommend this Courgette and Split Channa Dal.
Looking for something seasonal? Try these summery courgette almond patties.
Do you love garlic? Well, you just might love these! Why not try this garlic courgette bruschetta recipe?
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 220 degrees and line a baking tray.
Press the tofu – put it on a flat surface with kitchen towel on top and underneath and then stack heavy books on top. The aim is to squeeze some of the moisture out, not squash it flat. Press it for at least 15 mins, longer if possible, this helps it crisp up when cooking.
Cut the pressed tofu into cubes – up to you how big but I would recommend about 2 x 2 cm cubes.
Method
In a large bowl mix together the soy sauce, mustard, olive oil, vegetable stock and garlic powder.
Add the tofu and ensure it’s well coated, marinate for at least one hour (the longer the better) and stir occasionally.
Place the marinated tofu in a single-layer on the baking sheet and place the tofu in the oven. After 15 minutes turn over and add some extra marinade. Cook for another 15 minutes.
Take out of the oven once nicely browned.
You can either eat it straightaway in a salad, stir-fry or pasta dish, or keep refrigerated and use within the next 5 days.
Preparation
Makes 5 – 6 balls.
Method
Whizz up the almonds in your food processor to break them up into small pieces.
Add 15 of the dates and 1 tbsp cacao powder. Process until sticky dough is formed.
Remove the mixture from your processor and put in the freezer for 15 minutes to harden up a bit.
Soak the remaining dates in boiled water for 5 minutes to soften.
Drain them, keeping a drop of the water and then using a hand blender, blend them up until smooth.
Add the almond butter and optional vanilla powder. Give it a good mix.
Get the mixture out of the freezer and roll into small balls, then flatten out.
Put a dollop of the caramel mixture in the middle and fold the sides up around it.
Make a lid with another bit of the ‘dough’ and put it on top of the caramel.
Gently smooth it around and roll into balls using your hands.
Repeat until you have used everything up.
Put back in the freezer for an hour.
Melt the coconut oil on a low heat. Using the maple syrup, 3 tbsp cacao and coconut oil, mix it all up to make chocolate.
Take your balls out of the freezer and coat them in the chocolate.
Put back in the freezer for 5 minutes for the outside chocolate to set.
Method
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
After rinsing, place the quinoa in a saucepan with 100ml water. Cover, bring to the boil and simmer until the water has evaporated (about 10 minutes). Leave covered for another 5 minutes.
While the quinoa is cooking, simmer the cherries in a saucepan on a medium heat. Mash with the back of a wooden spoon or fork to transform them into a jam-like consistency. This will take around 10 minutes.
Once the quinoa is ready, add it to a mixing bowl with the tahini, oil, maple syrup, salt, pumpkin seeds and half of the flaked almonds. Give it all a good stir and pour it into your baking tin, pressing down with the back of a spoon.
Next, pour on the cherries and smooth out the surface. Sprinkle on the remaining flaked almonds, pressing down to give an even coverage.
Place on the top shelf of the oven and cook for 30 minutes.
NOTES: I find frozen cherries work really well in this recipe, as they cook down more easily. However, if you use fresh cherries, add a tbsp or two of water to the pan when simmering to help the cooking process.
Method
In a small pan or a bowl in the microwave, gently melt together the peanut butter and chocolate then very gradually add the milk (preferably warmed) and mix until combined and steaming hot.
Pour into your favourite mug and enjoy.
* Do not just add all the cold milk to the melted chocolate as this will cause the chocolate to solidify leaving you with floating little lumps of chocolate and not a smooth, rich, creamy hot chocolate.
Method
Peel the potatoes and chop into halves and boil for 7 minutes.
Drain the potatoes and give them time to cool enough for you to be able to hold them without burning yourself! Then grate the potatoes.
Peel and grate the apple and pear and them mix them with the grated potatoes.
You need to get as much moisture out of the mix as you can- squeeze it, pat it with a towel. Add salt and your seasonings.
Separate the mix into 4 equal parts and make circles with them; think burger shaped. Really try and press the mix together to help it bind.
Add enough oil to a frying pan to cover the bottom and fry the rostis for roughly 8-10 minutes each side. But use your judgement here, you want them starting to crisp on the outside.
NOTE: Now in theory the rostis should be done now. However if they are not binding well (and they don’t always) then put them in a preheated oven for 5 minutes to finish them off.
Preparation
Pre-heat the oven to 200 degrees celsius/350 fahrenheit.
Method
Place the cauliflower florets in a baking dish. whisk the marinade together to form a smooth paste and pour over the cauliflower florets, toss until everything is coated and bake for 35-40minutes or until they brown.
Place all the salad ingredients in a large bowl. whisk the chilli dressing ingredients together until it emulsifies and pour about a third over the salad. gently mix.
Lightly toast the pittas and cut into triangular bitesize pieces. drizzle over a third of the chilli dressing before adding to the salad bowl.
Finely chop the parsley, coriander and mint together and sprinkle half over the salad bowl ingredients. gently mix.
Whisk the tahini sauce ingredients together until smooth, adding a little more water if necessary.
Remove the roasted cauliflower from the oven and lightly season with some seasalt. add to the salad and gently toss. serve in a bowl, drizzle over the tahini dressing and smattering of smoked paprika.
Preparation
Take your bread and cut to around 3cm thick with a bread knife or to your prefered thickness.
Empty the Amazake into a large bowl, fill the jar with filtered water and mix both liquids with a whisk or a spoon until blended. (Optional – Mix the Kuzu with 1 tbsp of water and add to the mixture. This will thicken the liquid) Dip the bread into the liquid and place in a large container (with a lid), pour the remaining liquid into the container and leave in the fridge for at least 30min.
Wash and slice all the fruit you would like to have as your toppin and leave in a bowl.
In a large frying pan, place 1 tbsp of coconut oil, one by one, slowly place the amazake soaked bread and fry them on medium to low heat. Flip the bread and check that both sides are golden brown.
Place all the cooked french toast on a serving dish. Now, let’s start decorating the dish. Pour a generous amount of maple syrup before serving. Enjoy warm.
Method
Cook the quinoa.
Mix ingredients together to make up a salad!
Preparation
Combine all the ingredients marked with a (*) together in a salad press and close, press the salad for one hour.
Method
Sauté the onions and carrots in sesame oil for about 10 minutes until soft.
Remove the tofu from the marinade and crumble with your hands into a bowl.
Add the onions, carrots, and millet and sunflower seeds.
Add the shoyu and brown rice vinegar.
Mix together and transfer to an oven proof dish.
Bake for 20 minutes on a medium heat.
Serve the tofu bake in a small bowl garnished with the pressed salad and sprinkle with black toasted sesame seeds. (The bake is supposed to be crumbly.)
Method
Heat olive oil in a large saucepan. Fry together onion, garlic, ground coriander, ground cumin, chili powder and cinnamon until onion is soft.
Add diced sweet potato, red pepper, canned tomatoes and water.
Bring to boil. Then cooked covered under medium heat for 10 mins.
Add black beans, chickpeas, and cider vinegar. Cook uncovered under medium heat for 20 mins until vegetables are cooked and liquid has thickened.
Add cocoa powder, sugar, lime juice and season to taste.
Add chopped fresh coriander just before serving.
Did you like this dish? Try this tasty chilli non carne recipe.
Method
The almonds need to be soaked overnight/for 8 hours.
Blend  all ingredients apart from the broccoli in a high-speed blender until smooth. Place the broccoli florets in a large bowl, and pour the dressing over the broccoli. Toss well to coat. Spread the coated broccoli on as many dehydrator trays as you need to fit all of the broccoli, and dehydrate at 110°F for 12-24 hours, or until dry and crunchy.
Oven Variation: Preheat the oven to 400° and bake for about 30-40 minutes, or until crunchy.
Chili Cheese Variation: Add 2 tbsp nutritional yeast, 1 clove garlic, and 2 tsp chili powder to the blended ingredients.
Spicy Maple-Chipotle Variation: Increase the amount of maple syrup to 2 tbsp and add 1/2 tsp red pepper flakes, 1/2 tsp cinnamon, and 1/2 tsp chipotle power to the blended ingredients.
Coconut-Peanut Butter Variation: Increase the amount of maple syrup or agave to 2 tbsp and add 1 tbsp peanut butter, 1/4 cup unsweetened dried coconut, and 1 tsp vanilla extract to the blended ingredients.
Bright Miso Variation: Add 1 tbsp light miso, 1 tbsp lemon juice, 1 tsp onion powder, 1 small clove garlic, and 1/2 tsp Dijon mustard to the blended ingredients.
Smoky “Bacon” Variation: Increase the amount of maple syrup or agave to 1 1/2 tbsp and add 1 tbsp tamari, 1 tsp smoked paprika, and 1/2 tsp liquid smoke to the blended ingredients.
Cool Ranch Variation: Add 1 tbsp nutritional yeast, 1/2 tsp garlic powder, 1/2 tsp onion powder, 1/2 tsp dried dill, 2 tbsp fresh chives, and 1 tbsp fresh parsley to the blended ingredients.
Method
Cut and core the apple. You don’t need to peel it.
Put the apple and the blueberries in the chopper attachment of a hand blender or food processor.
Blend till smooth-ish. Put into serving bowls.
Put all of the nuts into the blender and blitz till they are crumbs.
Add the dates and blitz again until the dates are very small pieces.
Add the quinoa flakes and blitz for a few seconds.
Pour this mixture on top of the fruit.
Method
Slice and cube your choice of vegetables, red onion, carrot, small leek etc. Put them in a bowl and drizzle over some light olive oil and balsamic vinegar, add salt and pepper (optional) and make sure the vegetables are well coated in the dressing.
Transfer to a baking tray and roast in a hot oven until slightly charred. Mix the roasted vegetables with 1 tbsp. pesto.
Warm up the tortillas over medium heat in a pan. Spread the vegan/pesto mayonnaise on the tortillas, and then fill them with the salad mix, roasted vegetables, avocado and sauerkraut. Drizzle with reduced balsamic vinegar, roll into burrito form and serve.
Preparation
Serves:  8
Preparation time: 15 minutes, plus overnight chilling & 20 minutes churning
Method
Mix 60ml / ¼ cup coconut milk with the arrowroot powder in a small bowl and set aside.
Pour the rest of the coconut milk and maple syrup into a large saucepan and bring to a boil. As soon as the mixture begins to boil, stir in the arrowroot mixture to thicken the liquid. Remove from the heat and stir in the vanilla.
Chill the mixture in the fridge until cold and churn. During the last few minutes of churning, add in the cashew cookie chunks and cocoa delight chips.
Transfer the ice cream to a freezer-safe container and freeze for at least 3 hours or overnight.
Method
Bring a small pan of water to the boil and then turn down to barely a simmer. place a bowl over the pan and melt the chocolate, plant milk and agave until completely smooth.
Add the amaranth pops or puffed oats, desiccated coconut and stir to combine.
Fill 8-10 mini muffin cases or 4 standard cases with the mixture and finish with a little more coconut.
Leave to harden for at least an hour before consuming. you can also chill them in the refrigerator if you prefer.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C, and spray a medium-sized rectangular dish with oil
Put the dairy-free spread and syrup in a pan and heat gentle until melted
Add the dates and desiccated coconut and stir before switching off the heat
Add the oats, and mix thoroughly until the mixture is evenly coated
Add the chocolate, and also the fine dust/crumbs left over from breaking it up
Mix into the mixture, don’t worry if it begins to melt, this will help to bind the mixture
Spoon into your dish, and press it down as much as possible with the back of a spoon
Bake for 20-25 minutes depending on your preferred consistency (longer for crunchier)
Remove from the oven, allow to cool to room temperature
Place in the fridge for an hour or so to firm up enough for cutting
Cut into 12 slices and enjoy!
Notes
For the dish size, I used one that’s 18cm x 23cm but sizes can vary slightly.  You may have to adjust cooking times if the overall size is much different as smaller dishes will make a thicker flapjack that may need cooking longer.
If you want to, you can remove the flapjack from the oven about 15 minutes into the cooking time, and carefully turn it out onto a flat baking sheet, so as to cook it more evenly on the underside.  This isn’t essential though, and if you do decide to, be very careful as it will still be quite crumbly.
Method
Start squeezing all the water out of 400g of firm tofu. This takes about 20 minutes. The more you squeeze the water out of tofu the more it will absorb flavours.
Then roughly crumble the tofu into a food processor and all other ingredients. Blend well until you get a smooth mixture. You may need to add a TINY bit of water as well. And don’t taste the mixture, the uncooked chickpea flour tastes bitter and needs to be cooked first before it is consumed.
Then spoon out the mixture with a tablespoon. And press into a bowl with breadcrumbs. Bread evenly on all sides and then fry in hot oil until golden brown (make sure the oil is hot). Place on a kitchen towel as it will absorb some of the excess oil.
Serve on its own with ketchup or other dips or with a delicious Austrian potato salad. Enjoy!
— Exceedingly Vegan
Method
Wash the fruit. Core the apples and chop into cubes, roughly 2cm. Take a third of the chopped apples and simmer in a little water with the agave nectar and cinnamon.
Once they become soft and pulpy and can be lightly mashed with a wooden spoon to form a sauce, add the remaining apples and soften slightly for a couple of minutes.
Remove from the heat and stir in the blackberries gently so as not to crush them.
Pour the fruit mixture into an ovenproof dish and preheat your oven to 180ºC/350ºF/Gas Mark 4.
Meanwhile, rub the vegan margarine into the flour until it resembles fine breadcrumbs, then stir in the oats and sugar.
Sprinkle the crumble topping onto the fruit filling and press it down lightly. Scatter a little extra sugar all over the top, then pop in the oven for about 25 minutes.
Serve hot with lashings and lashings of vegan custard!
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
Makes 9-12 servings
Equipment
Two mixing bowls
Measuring cups
Measuring spoons
Small pan
Whisk
Wooden spoon
Baking paper
8″ x 8″ baking tray
Method
Turn the oven on to 175c and line your baking dish with baking or greaseproof paper. Melt the coconut oil and leave to cool.
Pour the almond milk and apple cider vinegar or lemon juice into a bowl and whisk together. This will create a ‘buttermilk’, so don’t worry when it starts to curdle or separate.
Finely chop the chilli into tiny pieces and add it with all of the other dry ingredients into another bowl. Stir thoroughly.
* Top Tip *
Wearing disposable gloves helps to avoid any accidental chilli ‘after burn’ if you forget and touch your skin after chopping.
Add the cooled, liquid coconut oil and maple syrup to the ‘buttermilk’ bowl, and whisk briskly for a minute or so to combine and create a slightly frothy mixture.
Pour the liquid into the dry ingredients bowl and stir together until you have a thick batter without any lumps. Pour into the baking dish and pop in the oven for 30-35 mins. To check it’s cooked, insert a skewer into the middle and it should come out clean.
* Serving Suggestion *
The chilli cornbread tastes delicious both warm and cold, and is a great side for soup, chilli con carne, or dipped in flavoured oils and vinegars. The cornbread will keep for 1-2 days in an airtight container, however it always tastes best on the day you make it as gets drier over time; surely a great reason to share it with your friends!
Method
Heat your favourite oil or cooking fat in a large casserole dish (we used coconut oil – you could also use  rapeseed oil to name a few)
Fry the onions for a few minutes until soft and translucent
Add the swede, squash, mushrooms and more seasoning to the casserole, and sweat for approximately 10 minutes… until the mushrooms are soft
Stir in the fresh thyme and chestnuts, and almost cover the ingredients with boiling water (if unsure best to add less, otherwise the stew will be too thin), add a little more seasoning
Once it comes to the boil reduce the heat, cover with a lid and gently simmer for 40-60 minutes
Season to taste and serve with fresh tarragon
Optional: upgrade with Pulsin’ Pea Protein!
Preparation
Serves 1.
Method
Mix the dry ingredients to small bowl and add the wet ingredients and mix well. The mixture should be thick and fairly smooth (how smooth it is depends on the type of flour used my oat flour gave more texture).
Spoon the mix into a large ramekin (or small deep sides dish- there should be min. 1cm space beneath the rim once the pear is pushed in! to allow for a slight rise in the mixture). Push the pear gently into the centre of the ramekin so that is at least half submerged.
Bake for 10-15 minutes at 180C until the pear is golden and the mixture is very lightly browned.
Serve with a drizzle or carob, chocolate, yoghurt, cream as desired.
Method
Place the greens and dulse in a salad bowl along with the celery and carrot. Drizzle on the dressing and toss well. Taste and adjust the seasonings. Garnish with the toasted walnuts.
To make the dressing: Blend all ingredients together.
Preparation
Place everything into a blender and blitz together until completely smooth.
Pour it up into your favourite glasses and enjoy!
Method
Heat Flora and olive oil in a large pan and fry the onion and garlic until soft but not browned.
Add the rice and stir well. Pour in the wine and bring to the boil. Reduce heat and cook gently, whilst stirring, until the liquid has been absorbed.
Stir in 300ml stock and repeat until the stock has been absorbed.
Add half the remaining stock, and continue cooking, stirring occasionally until the risotto has a creamy consistency.
Add the peas to the rice together with the asparagus and remaining stock. Bring back to a simmer and continue stirring as the liquid is absorbed and the rice becomes tender.
Stir in the spinach, with a little more stock if necessary, and sprinkle in the cheese, stirring until melted through.
Season to taste and serve straight away.
Method
Using a spiraliser turn the carrot and courgette to create long noodles. Place in a bowl and sprinkle with salt.
Place all the ingredients for the nut cheese in a high speed blender. Blend until smooth – you may need to add a little water to get the right consistency.
Mix all the pepper sauce ingredients together, adding a little water to get to the right consistency.
Rinse the vegetable spaghetti and dry well with kitchen towel. Place in a clean bowl and add the basil leaves, tomatoes and olives and seasoning. Mix in the cheese then serve drizzled with the pepper sauce.
Method
Cut the bread into neat fingers.
Slowly heat the sugar and water together in a saucepan over a low heat until the sugar dissolves.
Add the fruit and simmer gently for about 7-10 minutes. Reserve a few spoonfuls of juice.
Line the base and sides of a 1 litre basin with bread fingers.
Add half of the hot fruit and cover with more bread fingers. Pour in remaining fruit and top with the remaining bread. Cover with a saucer or plate and place a heavy weight on top.
Refrigerate overnight.
Turn out onto a plate. If there are any white patches, spoon a little of the reserved juice over them.
Serve with your favourite vegan cream or ice cream alternative. Elderflower sorbet would make a light, refreshing, summery accompaniment.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C/400°F/Gas mark 6
Cut the potatoes into bite-sized chunks and bring them to boil in a large pan
Simmer for 7 minutes
Pour the olive oil into a large roasting tin and place it in the oven to heat up
Drain the potatoes and return to the pan, with the lid on shake the potatoes to roughen the edges
Spoon in the pesto and toss until all the potatoes are evenly covered
Add the potatoes to the hot roasting tin and spoon over any remaining pesto sauce
Place in over to roast for 45-50 minutes, turning once or twice over cooking until crispy and delicious
Method
Preheat the oven to 170 degrees.
Mash up the banana and mix properly with oats.
Line your baking tray with baking paper. Take the banana and oat mixture and create a pizza shape.
Bake in the oven for 10 min or until the bottom of the pizza is slightly brown.
Spread peanut butter on the top; then add sliced banana, strawberries, kiwi – or whatever fruit  you like – and sprinkle with desiccated coconut.
Method
Parmesan: Mix all roasted cashews, nutritional yeast and shiro miso in a blender until the mixture has the texture of grated parmesan. If you use unsalted cashews, add a teaspoon of salt to the mixture. I recommend you double or triple the recipe, it keeps in the fridge and you’ll want to use it in other dishes, too.
You can use leftover rice for this, but if you don’t: cook rice according to instructions in plant milk and water. Fry the zucchini slices in batches in a pan in hot oil until they’re soft and start to brown. You can let the zucchini slices drain on paper towel. Sauté onions and garlic in the same pan.
Preheat oven to 200C/390F.
For the ‘egg’-mixture: Mix kala namak and chickpea flour in a bowl. Add the water and whisk until the mixture is smooth and starts to get a little foamy. Add the cashew parmesan and mix well.
Mix cooked rice, parsley, tomato paste, seasoning and onions in a big bowl. Salt and pepper to taste. Add the ‘egg’- mixture. Be aware that uncooked chickpea flour has a strong, unfamiliar taste that will disappear after cooking. It makes it difficult to taste the uncooked mixture, you might want to rely on your experience or salt and pepper before you add the ‘egg’-mixture. Add the fried zucchini slices, mix everything well and fill the mixture in a greased springform tin. Sprinkle with the nutritional yeast, garnish with flakes of butter and bake at 200C/390F for about 50 minutes.
If the quiche browns to quickly, cover the form with tinfoil.
It’s done when the center is firm to the touch.
Serve hot or warm with carrot salad and (vegan) sour cream. I love to eat it when it’s cold, it gets an almost meat-loaf like taste and texture after a night in the fridge.
Method
Heat the oil in a wok set over a medium-high heat. Once hot, add the curry paste and stir-fry for about 1 minute, until fragrant.
Gradually stir in half the coconut milk and cook for about 1 minute, until the oil from the paste rises to the surface of the coconut milk. Once this happens, stir in the remaining coconut milk, then mix in the palm sugar and soy sauce and cook for a further minute.
Bring the mixture to the boil, then add the tofu. Reduce the heat and simmer for 2–3 minutes, until the tofu is heated through. Stir in the sweet basil, lime leaves and sliced chilli.
Remove the pan from the heat. Serve the curry immediately, with a bowl of rice, garnished with extra basil leaves.
Method
Roughly chop the onion, crush the garlic and add to a large saucepan with the olive oil.
Saute for 5 minutes.
Add the celery and stock, stir to mix and then add the sweet potatoes.
Cover and cook for 15 minutes.
Transfer to a blender and add the watercress.
Return to the pan and stir in the miso.
Serve garnished with a sprig or two of watercress.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Method
Preheat the over to 180C and line a baking tray with greaseproof paper.
In a saucepan add the dates and cover with water, cook down for 10-15 minutes on a medium heat until soft and gooey.
Into the blender add the whole almonds and blitz for 30 seconds. Add the cocoa power, ground almonds, dark chocolate and walnuts and blitz together until the walnuts are chopped up.
In a small bowl mix together the milled chia seeds and mix with water. Add to the blender along with the maple syrup.
Once the dates have boiled down add to the blender and mix everything together.
Spread the mixture evenly in the baking tin and bake for 15 minutes.
Leave to cool in the tray and once cooled cut into squares. Keep in the fridge.
Method
1. First, make the bulgur salad. Heat a large frying pan over a high heat and add the olive oil. Once the oil is hot, add the onion and cook for 1–2 minutes, then stir in the garlic and paprika.
2. Bring the vegetable stock to a simmer in a small saucepan over a medium heat. Add the bulgur wheat and gently cook for 8–10 minutes until the grains have plumped up and are cooked through. Remove from the heat and stir through the red onion mixture and parsley. Set aside.
3. Meanwhile, make the chermoula. Heat a small, dry frying pan over a medium heat, add the cumin and coriander seeds and cook for 2 minutes until just toasted. Transfer to a small mixing bowl, add the remaining chermoula ingredients and mix to combine. Season to taste, then set aside.
4. Preheat the oven to its hottest setting and, once it is roasting hot, turn it to the grill setting. Pierce each aubergine twice with a small, sharp knife. Place on a baking sheet under the grill, with the oven door closed, for 25 minutes or until the aubergine skin is black and the flesh is collapsed and soft, using tongs to turn halfway through this time. Remove from the oven, then slice each hot aubergine lengthways down the centre, being careful not to cut all the way through, and split open. Drizzle with the olive oil and lemon juice, and season with the sea salt and some pepper.
5. Serve the aubergines heaped with a spoonful of the bulgur wheat salad and a spoonful of chermoula.
Preparation
Allow two hours for chilling both the Tofu Cream and the Blueberry Sauce.
Method
Tofu Cream:
Whip all ingredients together in a blender until very smooth. Refrigerate at least two hours before serving.
Blueberry Sauce:
Set aside one cup of the blueberries for topping the dessert.
Place the remaining 3 cups of blueberries in a pot with the rice syrup and lemon juice.
Dissolve the kuzu in two tablespoons of water and add to the pot.
Bring to a boil and simmer on low heat for 4 minutes.
Stir in the kuzu and simmer until the mixture starts to thicken.
Transfer to a blender and blend to a cream.
Pour into a bowl and allow to cool.
Chill in the refrigerator for at least two hours.
Using pretty glasses and layer some blueberry sauce in the bottom and tofu cream on top.
Continue this process of layering until the glass is full, and then top with blueberries and toasted flaked almonds, or nuts of your choice.
Preparation
This recipe serves 1
Method
Wash 3 handfuls of Pawa (rice flakes) in warm water – do this once or twice but not for long
Leave it in a strainer until you need it, so that the water drains away
In a pan, add the oil, mustard seeds, jiru and hing
Add the peanut kernels
Add 2 sweet neem leaves
Put the lid on the pan and wait until the seeds begin to pop
Add the chilli – ensure that you taste the chilli first so that you can amend how much you put in according to how spicy the chilli is
Open a can of sweetcorn and drain the water
Add the sweetcorn to the pan and mix
Add salt to taste
Add the turmeric
Let it cook until the corn is softer (about 5 minutes)
Add the Pawa and lemon juice and mix
After about 5 minutes add the chopped coriander and mix
Serve and enjoy after a couple of minutes
Method
Mix together oats, water, oat milk, apple puree and cinnamon in a pot.
Bring to the boil and simmer for 8 – 10 minutes until thickened.
Add in salt, pea protein and maple syrup to taste.
Stir well to combine. Loosen out with a little more oat milk if desired to reach desired consistency.
Serve topped with the wonderful array of topping suggestions!
Preparation
Serves 4.
Replace the chickpeas with lentils if you want a more crunchy bite.
This vegetable curry is made using Provamel soya alternative to yogurt free from sugars.
Method
Heat the oil in a skillet
Add the tikka masala and the onion
Add the cauliflower tomatoes and put the lid on
Mix in the chick peas, spinach and parboiled potatoes and cook another 15 mins
Season with salt and pepper and spoon in the soya alternative to yogurt
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Preheat over to 180oC/160oC Fan/Gas 4.
Method
Line a 1lb loaf tin with non-stick baking parchment.
Sift together the flour, ground cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, baking powder in a large mixing bowl. Rub in the dairy-free margarine until you have a consistency of fine breadcrumbs. Add the sugar, bananas, chopped walnuts, and raisins. Stir well.
Gradually add the dairy-free milk a little at a time until you have a soft dropping consistency, the amount needed will depend on the ripeness of the bananas.
Spoon into the tin and level the surface. Bake in the oven for 1¼ to 1½ hours or until golden, firm to touch and a skewer inserted into the middle comes out clean. Cover with foil if the loaf is browning too much during cooking.
Leave to cool in the tin then turn out onto a wire rack to finish cooling.
Preparation
Finely chop a good handful or more of fresh rosemary leaves, until you have at least a tablespoon of finely chopped rosemary.
Turn oven on to approximately gas mark 7 (220˚C/425˚F).
Mix all dry ingredients together.
Add 175ml (6 floz) of the water and mix thoroughly with the dry ingredients. Add the remaining 25ml of water a little at a time, until you have a dough-like ‘rollable’ ball (the best way to mix is to use the back of a spoon, with a pressing type motion or just get your hands in there). When you have added all water necessary, press firmly together with your hands. You may be tempted to add more water to get it to bind, but make sure that you really need it first, otherwise you’ll end up with a soggy mix! If you put too much water in it’s not really a problem though, just add extra oatmeal or spelt flour.
Split the dough into two (makes rolling easier) and roll out on a flour dusted surface until it is about 3 mm (8th of an inch) thick (I like to use spelt flour or fine oatmeal to roll/dust with, but whatever you have will do).
Cut with cookie cutter and place onto an oiled oven tray. If you don’t have a cookie cutter, then just cut into squares or triangles with a sharp knife.
Place on oven tray and then bake in preheated oven between 20 and 25 minutes, until they begin to gently tan.
Lift from tray and let them cool down on a cooling tray. They should firm up nicely with an enjoyable crunch. Some people like them less crunchy, in which case take out before they start to tan. I am in the ‘crunchy’ camp personally. Explore.
Preparation
I know tofu can be a little daunting to cook with if you haven’t used it before, particularly if you’re a new vegan and attempt to treat it like you might have done a non-vegan protein source.
Top tofu tip! Before we get started it’s probably worth sharing my number 1 favourite tip for tofu – freeze it first, then defrost it.
Whilst this means a little more planning, it seems to make a big difference in the firmness, how easy it is to work with, and also the texture of the end result.  It’s not the end of the world if you haven’t time to freeze it before using but for future reference, I find it works best to keep tofu in the freezer and just take it out to defrost the evening before or the morning of the day I’m going to be using it
Method
Unpackage the tofu and drain well, squeezing the excess moisture over the sink before placing in a clean tea cloth
Wrap the cloth around the tofu and press down on it to remove as much of the moisture as possible – I find placing it between two chopping boards is a good method
Cut the tofu into cubes – I find slicing it in half into two flat slabs is a good way to start
Place the tofu in a bowl, add the salt, pepper, spices, and soy sauce and mix gently until all pieces are evenly coated
Add the flour and mix again, until evenly coated
Heat the oil in a pan, then carefully add the tofu (you don’t want to burn yourself with splashes of hot oil!)
Fry the tofu, turning occasionally, until golden
Serve as is with the garnish or dipping sauce or add at the last minute to your favourite stir fry dish
Enjoy!
Method
In a skillet over medium-high heat, heat the oil. Add the tofu and brown until the edges are crisp, about 5 minutes.
Combine the tofu, baby carrots, potatoes, onions, garlic, ginger, water, coconut milk, red curry paste, bouillon cube, and salt in a slow cooker; mix well.
Cover and cook on low for 6 to 8 hours or on high for 3 to 4 hours.
Serve over rice and garnished with cilantro.
Method
Cook pasta according to packet instructions.
Blend together all sauce ingredients with the exception of the protein powder until perfectly smooth and silky in a high-speed blender.
Start with 200 ml of oat milk and add more if necessary either before or after you add the protein powder.
Add protein powder and blend to combine.
Season to taste with Pink Himalayan Rock Salt.
Mix shredded kale with pesto.
Add sauce to cooked and drained pasta.
Serve topped with some of the kale pesto slaw and crisps of choice. Dig in!
Preparation
Makes 9 brownies
You will need a 23 cm square tin for this recipe
Method
Preheat the oven to 180c and lightly grease and line a 23cm square brownie tin.
Begin by combining the ground flaxseed in a bowl with 9 tablespoons of water, stir together and set aside to thicken up – the flaxseed will absorb all of the liquid, acting as a binder for the brownies.
Place the aduki beans into a food processor and blitz until you have a smooth paste. Add the flaxseed mixture, oil, sugar, cocoa, ground almonds, baking powder and vanilla extract and pulse until you have a rich and glossy batter.
Roughly chop the dark chocolate into small chunks, add it to the mixture and pulse briefly just to combine the chocolate into the mixture. Spoon the brownie batter into the tin and then bake in the oven for 55-60 minutes, stopping half way through to cover the brownies loosely in foil to stop them catching.
Remove from the oven and set aside to cool down until just warm, this way the brownies will have had time to set a little but still be deliciously warm.
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 8.
Pineapple Coconut Muffins are made using Provamel Rice Coconut drink.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C.
Put all the dry ingredients in a bowl and mix well.
Dice the pineapple and puree with a hand blender until you have a coarse paste.
Mix the pineapple and the other wet ingredients together with the dry ingredients until you have a smooth dough.
Take a muffin tin and place muffin liners in each tin.
Scoop the batter in the liners until they are filled ¾.
Sprinkle with some coconut powder.
Put them in the oven for about 20-25 minutes until they are golden brown.
Method
Peel and grate the dudhi, then mix with 1 tsp of salt. Leave for 15 minutes.
Using your hands, squeeze the water out of the dudhi and discard the water. This will help each fritter hold together.
Add all spices, chillies and coriander to the dudhi along with the gram flour and cornflour. Mix well to form a coarse batter.
Heat ½ cm of oil in a saucepan over a high heat. Once the oil is hot enough, dot heaped tablespoons of the dudhi batter around the saucepan and fry for 4-5 minutes, turning regularly to ensure they turn evenly crispy.
Once the dudhi is crispy and brown on the outside, remove from the oil and drain on kitchen paper. Serve with a tamarind chutney.
Method
Put the florets in a bowl with the oil and then Spread out on a baking tray and put in an oven at 180c for 20 mins. They should soften and brown slightly.
Carefully transfer the cauliflower to a bowl and add as much jerk seasoning as it takes to give your cauliflower a good coating.
Put the cauliflower back on the baking tray and give it another 10 mins in the oven. I like my cauliflower quite well cooked and soft all the way through. Some people prefer cauliflower with more bite, in which case reduce your cooking times accordingly.
Once nicely soft and browned, transfer to serving dish, top with Spring onions and a drizzle of vegan mayo and you’re done.
Check out more vegan BBQ ideas! 
Method
Roll the rice into balls the size of a golf ball.
Squeeze tightly in between your hands so they stick well together.
Wet your hands in between to stop the rice from sticking to your fingers when rolling.
Roll in the balls in some sesame seeds.
Heat some sunflower frying oil in a heavy based pan.  When the oil starts ‘dancing’ making shapes, drop a little rice in and test, it should float back up immediately.
Fry the rice balls until slightly brown and crisp.
Season with shoyu and eat hot.
Preparation
Vegan Raspberry and Chocolate Crumble
Mix every dry ingredient in a bowl and add the melted vegan butter to bind the mix together.
Spread out evenly on a lined baking tray and cook at 170c for 12-15 minutes.
Once cooled add the raspberry pieces and set aside.
If you wish to prepare this in advance, the crumble can be stored in a airtight container for up to five days.
Caramel Layer (Optional)
Mix the almond milk with the corn starch and warm up gently in a small pan until 50c-60c, set aside.
Heat the sugar in a pan on a medium heat until it reaches a light golden caramel, turn the heat to low and then slowly add the milk, whisking all the time until fully incorporated.
Once all the milk is in, bring the mix to the boil and whisk constantly for 1 minute (this will cook the cornstarch and thicken the mix)
Take off the heat, whisk in the butter until it is emulsified and set aside in a bowl to cool to room temperature.
Vegan Mousse 
Warm the chocolate gently in the microwave and stir with a spoon until melted.
Drain off the tofu and place it into a blender with all the other ingredients, blend until smooth.
Put to one side until you are ready to pour into the glasses (Do not store it in the fridge while you gather the other elements, it will become to firm to pour)
Finishing
Start with pouring a small amount of mousse into the bottom of the glass and layer with the crumble, followed by another layer of mousse.
Place in the fridge to set for 15 minutes before topping with a spoonful of caramel and finishing with more crumble.
Method
Preheat oven to 180C.
Line a 9×13 baking dish with parchment paper.
In a large bowl, combine quinoa, green chillies, corn, beans, tomatoes, plant-based cheese, cilantro, cumin, garlic, onion and chilli powder, salt and pepper, to taste.
De-case the Beyond Sausage links. In a pan, crumble the links and cook for about 4 minutes. Note: they will continue to cook in the oven, and you don’t want them to dry out.
Spoon the filling into each bell pepper cavity. Place filled pepper in the prepared baking dish, cavity side up, and bake until the peppers are tender and the filling is heated through about 25-30 minutes.
Serve and enjoy!
Did you enjoy this dish? Check out this Beyond Sausage Toad in the Hole too.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C.
Roll out the first pack of puff pastry on a floured surface, using a small plate just larger than the patty, cut 2 circles from the pastry. Place 1 Traditional Burger patty on top of each pastry round and wet the edges with a little water.
Top with a generous dollop of chakalaka and grated vegan cheese.
Repeat the process of cutting 2 circles from the second roll of pastry and place the circles over the top of the Burgers.
Using a fork, seal the edges well and brush the top of the pies with a little olive oil. Sprinkle with sesame seeds then bake for 30-40 minutes, or until golden brown on top.
Serve the pies with a side of crispy baked potato wedges and tomato sauce for dipping.
Method
Heat the oil in a heavy frying pan over a medium heat.
Add the onion and sauté for 3 minutes.
Add the red pepper and turmeric and sauté for a further 2 or 3 minutes.
Add the corn and spring onions to the pan and sauté for a few minutes.
With your hands, crumble the tofu into the pan.
Add the fresh coriander, shoyu to taste and a small drop of water and scramble the tofu for 5 minutes.
Sprinkle the parsley and black sesame seeds, and serve hot with a crusty whole grain baguette or sourdough soft, or toasted.
Method
Mix the following together in a bowl or blend in a food processor: ground almonds, chopped medjool dates, pea protein, agave or rice syrup and vanilla extract.
Melt the dark chocolate and add in the cranberries.
Form onto a tray to set for 20 mins.
Slice into 6 pieces and serve.
Method
Peel potatoes and cut them into medium-small sized cubes.
Steam or boil them until they are cooked but still hold their shape. (Start with cold / room temperature water)
Heat oil over low-medium heat.
Add cumin seeds and sauté until fragrant.
Then add green chillies and ginger. Sauté for just under a minute.
Add all dry spices. Cook for a few seconds.
Add steamed/boiled potatoes. Mix until all potatoes are coated with spices.
Cover lid and cook for 3-4 minutes.
Sprinkle with chopped coriander.
Love this dish? Explore even more vegan curry recipes.
Method
Heat the olive oil in a large heavy-bottomed saucepan.
Fry the onion gently until it begins to soften.
Add the garlic clove.
Add all the vegetables and cook for a minute.
Add the stock, herbs and tin of tomatoes.
Bring to the boil and simmer for 30-45 minutes until all the vegetables are soft.
Process in a liquidiser until smooth.
Return to the pan and heat through.
Season to taste with freshly ground black pepper and salt as required.
Like this? Check out more vegan soup recipes! 
Method
Melt together the dark chocolate & salt with the milk alternative in a dish over a pan of water.
Mix together well then add everything except the gluten-free flour, mixing together thoroughly for around 20 seconds.
Once you have a paste-like substance mix in the gluten-free flour. Line the baking tray with grease-proof paper and scrape in the brownie batter. Bake at 160c in a pre-heated oven for 40 minutes, turning halfway.
Remove from the oven and allow to cool and refrigerate overnight.
Cut, serve and eat.
No nonsense vegan recipes – Food Rhino
Facebook
Instagram
Want more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary for free recipes, meal plans, cookbooks and more!
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 350f.
Get a 7 inch pie dish ready.
Method
Start by making the pastry. In a large mixing bowl add the flour and fat. Using your hands rub the fat through the flour until the mixture resembles a coarse sand.
Stir in the sugar. Make a well in the middle of the flour then add the aquafaba, using a wooden spoon to mix it all together.
Lightly flour your kitchen surface, then plop the dough out of the bowl. Knead lightly for around 5 minutes until the pastry is smooth. Roll into a ball and place in a ziplock bag. Chill the pastry in the fridge for at least 1 hour.
Whilst the pastry is chilling, start on the cherry filling. Pit the cherries – I find the easiest way is to use an empty wine bottle and a chopstick. Place 1 cherry in the opening of the wine bottle and use the sharp end of the chopstick to push out the pit.
Once all the cherries are pitted add them to a saucepan with the 2 tablespoons of sugar and vanilla extract. Cook on a medium-low heat until the juices run out and the fruit is soft. Set aside to cool.
Divide the pastry into two equal parts.Flour your surface and roll out one piece of pastry into an 8 inch circle and carefully lay it over the pie dish.
Using your fingers press the pastry into the dish. Cut away the excess pastry. Scoop out the cherries using a slotted spoon, making sure not too take too much of the juice, into the pie casing.
Roll out your second piece of dough and carefully lay it over the top of the pie. Using your thumb press all the way around the edge of the dish to seal the pastry. Cut away the excess pastry. Then using your finger, press the thumb sealed part inwards to make a little flute.
If you want to, you can use your excess pastry to make a little decoration! Cut two slits in the top of the pie crust then brush it with a little aquafaba.
Bake the pie in the oven for 25 minutes or until golden brown, rotating half way.
Method
Blend the bananas, yoghurt and milk till smooth, portion it into 3 bowls.
In the first bowl add the lemon zest and turmeric, blend.
In the second bowl add the raspberries and beetroot powder, blend.
In the third bowl add the spinach and spirulina, blend.
In your serving bowl add a large spoonful of each mixture, one at a time.
Once all of the smoothie is in your bowl use your finger to create beautiful patterns.
Method
Lightly fry the onion, then add the potato along with a small amount of water.
Steam for approximately 10 minutes before adding the other veggies.
Add in your seasonings along with 1 large cup of vegetable stock.
Replace lid and bring to the boil for approximately 20 minutes, adding additional water as required.
Reduce the heat and add your spinach or kale.
Steam for a few additional minutes, or until the vegetables are to your liking.
Serve in a shallow bowl and sprinkle with vegan feta.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Relish: Place tomato and onion mix in small barbecue cast iron pot, add chutney and garlic. Place pot on barbecue and simmer for 3 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.
Marinade: Combine BBQ sauce and mustard to create a baste for the burgers.
Grill the burgers on the barbecue for 8 minutes, or until cooked through, basting and turning regularly.
Slice the buns in half, lightly brush with olive oil, toast lightly on the barbecue.
Assemble the burger: Layer with relish, sliced tomato and watercress. Add the burgers, gherkins, red onion and more relish.
Preparation
Makes 1 large jar
Equipment
Measuring cups & spoons
Food processor
Frying pan
Wooden spoon
Airtight glass jar
Sieve
Method
Soak the dried chilli and seeds in hot water for 10 mins to soften. When they’re ready, drain into a sieve and tip into the processor.
Add the rest of the ingredients to the food processor and blitz together for 15-20 seconds until everything is chopped into tiny pieces (it doesn’t need to be completely smooth).
Pour the mix into a frying pan and simmer gently on a medium heat for 8-10 mins, so that most of the liquid is absorbed and the flavours intensify. Stir occasionally to make sure nothing sticks to the bottom of the pan.
* Top Tip *
Keep an eye on the pan as the timings are just a guide – don’t over simmer the relish or it will dry up and burn.
The relish is ready when the excess liquid has been absorbed but it’s still moist – taste and adjust any seasonings or sweetness to your own taste. Leave to cool and store in an airtight jar.
* Serving Suggestion *
This sweet chilli relish is delicious on crackers, open sandwiches and serves as a great party dip for slices of toasted pitta bread. It’s also perfect for mixing through cooked pasta and veggies to add a spicy twist, plus any other tasty combinations you discover! Store it in the fridge and it will keep for up to 1 week (if you haven’t eaten it all by then!)
I’ve got loads more yummy vegan recipes on LottieLovesFood.com or come say hi on twitter or instagram.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Heat the oven to 180C. Wash the beetroots, brush with a little oil and wrap each one in foil. Wrap the garlic cloves into a loose foil parcel and place beets and garlic into the centre of the oven for 45 minutes.
Dry fry the cumin seeds in a non-stick frying pan for a minute or two keeping them moving so they don’t burn. Using a pestle and mortar or spice grinder grind the toasted seeds and set aside.
Reserving the liquid, drain and mash the butterbeans and add in tahini, if using. I mash the beans quite coarsely so as to keep a chunky texture but if you prefer a smoother consistency you might want to use a blender. Once mashed stir in the cumin, lemon juice and season well.
Peel the beetroot and garlic. Cut the beetroot into quarters and place in a blender. Cut the very tips of the garlic cloves and squeeze the soft garlic pulp in with the beetroot. Add a tablespoon of the reserved liquid from the beans and pulse. If the beetroot needs a bit of encouragement to move then add more of the reserved liquid as necessary. Blend until you have a smooth purée. Season to taste.
Coarsely chop the mint leaves and grind in a pestle and mortar with the oil. If you don’t want to use oil then finely chop the leaves and scatter on at the end.
To serve, dollop the bean mixture into a bowl or plate and create a shallow well in the centre. Spoon the beetroot purée into the well and drizzle the mint and oil over the top.
Preparation
Makes: 5 teacup-sized panna cottas
Preparation time: 10-15 minutes
Cooling and setting time: 4 hours +
Method
First, make the panna cottas. You need to do this way in advance of serving them, at least four hours prior. The panna cottas will keep well overnight, so you can always prepare them the night before you need them, if necessary.
Add 4 tablespoons of cold water to a small bowl. Stir into this 2 teaspoons of agar agar, and set aside for 5 minutes to ‘bloom’.
Add to a saucepan the coconut milk, coconut cream, sugar, and vanilla bean. Bring this mixture to a boil, then whisk in the agar-water mixture. Let the whole thing boil for another minute or so, then sieve into a large mixing bowl.
From the mixing bowl, carefully pour the hot coconut mixture into your serving glasses or dishes. Let the mixture cool for about half an hour before transferring the glasses to your fridge.
Refrigerate the panna cottas for at least 4 hours, until set. Once the panna cottas are cooling you can get to work on the compote.
Add the fresh raspberries, lemon juice, water and sugar to a medium saucepan. Crush up the raspberries a little in the pan with a spoon. Bring this mixture to a boil and allow it to keep boiling for a couple of minutes, stirring occasionally.
Then, turn the heat right down. Leave the pan uncovered, on a very low simmer, until most of the water has evaporated and the fruit has cooked down into a nice, smooth compote-y paste. Keep stirring the mixture every 10 minutes or so to help break the raspberries down.
If you’re not a fan of raspberry seeds, sieve your compote before cooling it. Otherwise, simply set it aside for 40-50 minutes, or until your panna cottas are set.
When the compote is cool and your ‘cottas set, scoop on top of each one an even amount of raspberry compote. Serve, preferably as soon as possible, and at most within 2-3 hours of assembling.
Preparation
Pre-heat the oven to 180 degrees celcius/350 degrees fahrenheit.
Method
Combine the flour, ground almonds, baking powder and bicarbonate of soda in a bowl.
Whisk together the yoghurt, milk, coconut oil, vanilla extract and sweeteners.
Make a well in the flour and pour in the wet ingredients. fold gently until the ingredients are thoroughly combined before stirring through around half of the redcurrants – leaving the remainder on the stalk for presentation purposes.
Grease your bundt tin with a little coconut oil. pour the batter into the tin and bake for around 30mins.
Allow it to cool for around 10mins before removing from the tin and transferring to a cooling rack.
Meanwhile, whisk all the glaze ingredients together in a pan and simmer until reduced and reasonably thick. let it cool a little before spooning around the top of the cake, allowing some of it to strategically run down the sides. leave it to cool further for around 5-10minutes before adorning with the remaining red currants.
Preparation
Makes 2 servings.
Method
Press the Cocoa Delight Nakd bar pieces together with your hands and, using a rolling pin, roll out them until they are 1/2cm thick. You may need to bring them together and roll out again a few times until they form a single piece that can be rolled out without any gaps. Roll out into a rectangle approx. 5cm x 10cm and place in the bottom of suitable container.
In a food processor, blend all of the filling ingredients together into a thick and creamy mixture. Scoop out over the base, smooth out the top, and place in the freezer.
Whilst the filling is in the freezer, roll out the Berry Delight Nakd bar and cut out four small heart shapes. Melt the chocolate and coconut oil over a bain-marie, stirring well. Once smooth and fully melted, remove from the heat and pour over the cheesecake filling. Place the hearts on top and return to the freezer. Freeze for at least ten minutes to allow the topping to set fully.
When you are ready to serve, remove from the freezer and container. Allow to defrost for around ten minutes, then using a very sharp knife, cut into two slices (tip: a sawing action works best to avoid cracking the topping), and serve!
Method
Boil the potatoes in water until they are soft, then drain.
In a bowl, combine the garlic, ginger, onion, chilli and lemon juice, then coat the potatoes in the mixture. Season to taste.
Heat the oil in a frying pan, then add the fenugreek seeds. When they start to brown, add the green chillis and the turmeric. Cook for another minute, then add this spice mixture to the potatoes.
Refrigerate to cool, then serve garnished with the coriander
Explore even more quick and easy vegan recipes!
Preparation
1. Preheat the oven to 180C. Cover the red onion with boiling hot water and leave for 5 mins. Drain the water and pat dry. Place in a small bowl, season well with salt and pepper and add the juice of 1 lime. Leave to macerate whilst you prepare the remaining ingredients.
2. Brush the flour tortillas with oil lightly. Use the underside of a muffin tray to shape the tortillas into a bowl pushing the middle section of each into the gaps to hold in place. Bake in the oven for 6-8 minutes or until golden brown and crisped.
3. Mix together the beans, sweetcorn, sliced radish, roasted red pepper, coriander, olive oil and juice of 1 lime. Season well with salt and pepper.
4. Marble the chipotle paste into the Alpro Plain Unsweetened Big Pot.
5. Spoon the beans into the tortilla bowls, top with the red onions, sliced avocado and a big dollop of the sauce.
Method
Preheat oven to 180° C, 160° C fan, Gas mark 4.
Add lemon juice to the milk and set aside.
Sieve together the flour, cocoa, caster sugar and bicarbonate of soda into a large mixing bowl.
Pour the milk, melted butter and golden syrup over the flour mixture and stir until it becomes a smooth batter.
Halve the mixture between two 20cm greased and base lined sandwich tins and bake in preheated oven for 35-40 minutes.
Check to see if your cake is cooked by inserting a skewer into the centre of each half. If it comes out clean, leave the cakes in the tins for 5 minutes before turning out and cooling on a wire rack.
Meanwhile, to make the icing beat together all ingredients until smooth.
When the cakes are completely cold, sandwich together with half of the icing. Spread the remaining icing over the top of the cake.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
This recipe is for 6 muffins
Method
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Cut each tomato into eight segments, place them on a tray and roast for 25 minutes, or until soft. This step could be done in advance, when you have the oven on for something else – just keep them in the fridge.
Melt the coconut oil in a ramekin. Once melted, use a little to grease each muffin pocket.
Combine the milk and vinegar in a jug and leave to one side, to curdle.
Sift the flour into a mixing bowl, stir and add the baking powder. Mix in the tomatoes, olives and rosemary ensuring an even coating of flour.
Make a well in the centre and mix in the milk and vinegar, then the syrup and remaining oil.
Once all ingredients are combined use a spoon to distribute the mixture between six muffin pockets.
Cook for 20 minutes. Leave them to cool in the tray before transferring to a rack, to prevent crumbling whilst hot.
Method
Begin by making the base. Heat a large pan to a medium temperature and gently toast the oats for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. There should be a delicious – but not burning! – aroma.
Combine the oats with the rest of the base ingredients in a food processor. Pulse on a low speed until all the ingredients clump together, but retain a nice texture.
Line a 10cm flan tin with foil.
Scoop out the base mixture and press down evenly into the tin. Place in the freezer.
To make the filling, start by processing the cashews until you have a smooth paste. Next, add 50g of blueberries and the remaining filling ingredients to the processor and blitz until combined.
To assemble, scatter the other 50g of blueberries over the base and then pour on the filling. Smooth over with the back of a spoon, ensuring it goes right up to the edges of the tin.
Freeze, for at least an hour, until needed.
NOTES
The longer you soak the cashews, the smoother (and easier on your food processor) they will be.
Transfer to the fridge a little while before serving to aid slicing.
Method
1. Preheat oven to 205⁰C. Line a small to medium sized deep baking tray with parchment paper. Set aside.
2. In a non stick pan, heat the olive oil over medium heat. Stir in the garlic and cook briefly until fragrant. Add in the spinach and kale. Place a lid over the pan to steam. Cook until wilted. Once cooked, stir through the artichokes. Set aside.
3. Using a high speed blender, add all the almond milk cheese sauce ingredients. Blend until smooth.
4. Add the warm veggie mix to the prepared baking tray. Stir in the almond milk mixture overtop and stir to combine. Place into the oven, covered for 10 minutes, remove cover and bake another 5-7 minutes or until thick and scoopable. Best served warm, enjoy!
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Remove the skin from your garlic cloves and put into a food processor. Give it a blitz so the garlic is chopped up
Drain and wash your chickpeas and add to processor. Give it another whizz around
Cut your lemon in half and squeeze out all the juice of one half
Add the tahini, olive oil and a splash of water and blitz again (a bit longer this time to give everything a chance to mix)
Scrape down the sides of the processor and give it another blitz
Time for the consistency and flavour check! If the hummus looks too dry, you can add a little more water, oil or lemon juice (or a combination of all three). This is why the tasting part is important, as the lemon can overpower if too much is added. Blitz again
Add salt and pepper to taste and keep processing/adding (water, oil, lemon juice or salt and pepper) until you’re happy with the desired consistency and taste
Pour/spoon out your hummus into a bowl
Serve immediately or leave in the fridge for an hour or two to let the flavours settle (the garlic becomes less strong with time)
Did you like this recipe? Why not try our Roasted Red Pepper Hummus too?
Method
Put the pecans into a food processor and pulse until it resembles graham cracker crumbs.
In a pan, toast the coconuts on medium heat. Keep an eye on this as they can go from golden brown to black quickly if you are not watching. Stir the coconut around every so often to get even browning. Transfer to a bowl once browned.
Melt the vegan butter over medium heat in a small pot. Stir in the peanut butter, ground pecans, and toasted coconuts. Mix well and then remove from heat.
In a muffin tray (with liners or without – without requires you to use a knife to pop them out later but still works) add 2 tablespoons of the mixture into each cup.
In a glass microwave safe bowl, melt the dark chocolate. Spoon over each one of the cups evenly.
Sprinkle nuts or coconut over the top. (you could even mix it in with the chocolate first!)
Now place the tray into your freezer for 2 hours to set.
After 2 hours remove from the freezer and remove the peanut butter cups! They can be kept in the fridge and eaten right away. I usually wait 5 minutes from when they are taken from the freezer before diving in!
Preparation
Serves 4/6.
Method
Lightly sweat the garlic, ginger, spices and onion for a few minutes in rapeseed oil until the onion is soft.
If you think the spices are going to catch add a little water to prevent this.
Add the coconut milk and veg stock and simmer for a few more minutes before adding the pepper and potatoes.
Once the potatoes are nearly cooked add the rest of the ingredients and simmer until the potatoes and are cooked.
No nonsense vegan recipes – Food Rhino
Facebook
Instagram
Preparation
Heat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
Cut the sweet potatoes lengthways into chips, about 1cm in width.
Arrange each chip on the parchment paper, being careful not to overlap.
Sprinkle over 2 tsp of the lemon juice, to help the dry seasoning to stick, then 1 tsp each of the sweet paprika, garam masala, sumac and chilli flakes.
Method
Cook for 20 minutes.
Remove from the oven and turn each chip over. Repeat step 4 and return to the oven to cook for a further 20 minutes.
And that’s it!
Method
Combine 1 ½ cups water, the rice, and the salt in a saucepan and bring to a boil.
Cover and simmer the rice over very low heat for 10 minutes, until most of the water is absorbed. Check frequently and stir to make sure it doesn’t stick.
Add 3 ½ cups of the soymilk and the sugar and gently stir to combine. Continue simmering on very low heat for an additional 20 to 25 minutes, until the rice is soft and most of the milk absorbed. You want a spongy texture, with no bite.
Remove the rice from the heat.
Pour ¼ cup of the remaining soymilk into a bowl and whisk in cornstarch to dissolve. Now add the vanilla extract and cardamom.
Pour the cornstarch-milk mixture along with the remaining ¾ cup soymilk into the hot pudding and stir to combine. At this point, I usually add a pinch of salt, which helps to draw out the subtle sweetness of the pudding.
Serve warm or at room temperature.
Method
Drain the water from the tofu and blot. Slice into chunky steaks approximately 1.5cm thick.
In a container large enough to accommodate the tofu steaks, mix together the marinade ingredients: ginger, chilli, coconut sugar, tamari or soya sauce, orange zest, orange juice and black pepper. If you are using protein powder, add this to the sauce later.
Immerse the tofu steaks. Cover and pop in the fridge for at least an hour to allow the flavours of the marinade to soak in.
Melt coconut oil in a shallow pan. Drain the steaks from the sauce and on a low-heat pan-fry for about 8-10 mins, turning over half-way through with a fish-slice. Alternatively, you can grill the steaks (allow 9-10 mins).
While the steaks are cooking, mix in the protein powder to the sauce (if using) and heat gently in a saucepan. Pour over the steaks. Serve. Enjoy!
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Preparation
Serves 10.
Method
Grease a 7 inch loose-bottomed tart tin with some coconut oil. Cut two 9 inch strips of greaseproof paper and line the tin, one strip over the other. This will make it easier to lift the tart out later.
Make the pastry – Roast the nuts in the oven for 2 -3 minutes until very slightly browned. Add all the pastry ingredients into a food processor and process until it starts to come together. Mold the raw pastry into the tart tin, building up a rim slightly above the tin. Place in the freezer for 5 – 10 minutes to set.
Make the filling – Roast the cashews in the oven for 2 – 3 minutes until very slightly browned. Melt the Barocco Choco dark chocolate over a bain marie and set aside to cool slightly. Add the rest of the filling ingredients into a food processor and process until thick and creamy. Add the cooled, but melted chocolate into the mixture and process again until combined.
Pour the chocolate cream into the pastry case that you prepared earlier and then put the whole tart back into the freezer for 5 – 10 minutes to set. Gently lift out the tart (you may need to loosen the pastry with a knife) and top with berries and a sprinkling of crumbled pistachios.
Method
Press and drain the tofu on paper towel until dry, changing the paper towel as required.
Put the oil in a heavy-based deep frying pan and heat to about 180o/350f.
Cut each tofu block in half and then half again.
Dust with the flour, then using a spatula gently slide the tofu into the oil and deep-fry until crisp and golden.
Arrange in bowls, pour over some miso sauce and garnish with the grated ginger, red radish and spring onion.
Note: Don’t dust the tofu with the flour until you are ready to fry it, otherwise it will become sticky.
Preparation
You can make the zoodles with a Julienne peeler or a spiraliser.  
This recipe is for two people, as a main course.
Method
1. Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4. Prepare the roasted ingredients first. Slice the tomatoes into eight segments each and arrange on a sheet of parchment paper, on an oven tray. Sprinkle with the chilli flakes or paprika and cook for 25 minutes. Slice the root ends from the garlic cloves (without unpeeling them) and add these to the tomato tray and cook for 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and leave to cool while you prepare the sauce.
2. Zoodle the noodles! This takes about 10 minutes, and I usually do this while the tomatoes are roasting.
3. To make the sauce, blend together the avocado, basil (stalks included), lemon juice and nutritional yeast.
4. Unpeel the garlic cloves, slice them, and combine in a bowl with the zoodles, tomatoes, olives and sauce.
This dish is great served with lemon-chilli sauteed broccoli and roasted chickpeas, which add a lovely crunchy topping.
Method
Place 3 small clean and shallow baking dishes or bowls side by side. Fill one with flour, another with butter or flax egg substitute and the last with bread crumbs.
Season the bread crumbs with Italian seasoning and vegan parmesan, mixing well.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit.
Dip each slice of zucchini first in the flour, then in the butter or flax egg mixture, and finally into the breadcrumbs, coating completely.
Place each coated slice onto a large baking sheet (18×13) lined with parchment paper or foil. Leave a small amount of space between each slice.
Place baking sheet into the oven and bake for 25-35 minutes (flipping every 10 minutes) until golden brown and crispy. Serve with marinara.
Method
Switch your oven on and put the tray inside. This is to keep cooked slices warm while cooking more.
Whisk the brine/aquafaba until it reaches ribbon stage (around 4-5 mins in a stand mixer on med-high speed).
Add the yolk mix (if it is very stiff, add a little more water – it should be the consistency of washing up liquid) and salt and pepper. Continue whisking for another minute.
Add the sugar 1 tbsp at a time, making sure it is well combined each time.
Transfer to the flat bottomed dish. Cut your bread in half diagonally. Place 4 pieces in the aquafaba mix. Turn to coat both sides. It won’t sink into the bread very much but that’s OK.
Heat your pan to med-hot, pour in a tbsp of veg oil and pop your slices in. Do not try to move them until the aquafaba mix looks melted on the top side.
Using a spatula, you may need to work a little to separate the slice from the pan. Flip and do the same again. Each side should be golden brown.
Put slices in oven to keep warm. Serve with maple syrup.
Preparation
To make the jalapeno corn salsa, place the chillies, sweetcorn, red onion, avocado, coriander, lime juice, salt and black pepper in a bowl and mix until combined. Set aside.
Place two tortillas on a chopping board or clean work surface. Divide the pack of Quorn Vegan Chicken Free Slices between the two tortillas, followed by the salsa and cheese. Place the two last tortillas on top to make your two quesadillas.
Place a large frying pan over a medium heat and brush the pan with the oil. Place one of the quesadillas into the pan. Fry for 2 minutes, before carefully flipping and frying for a further 2 minutes, until the cheese has melted. Repeat with the other quesadilla.
Cut each quesadilla into four pieces and serve immediately.
Method
Preheat your oven to 220c / 430f
Mushrooms – Put the tamari, water and paprika into a tupaware box, add the mushrooms, put the lid on and shake so the mushrooms are covered with the liquid. Marinade for 15 minutes. Bake in the oven for 10 minutes. Allow to cool.
Cashew sauce – Blend the cashews, flax, nutritional yeast, tofu, miso and salt, using the chopper attachment of a hand blender or a high speed jug blender. You may need to allow it to rest and soften for a few minutes and then reblend to get the sauce smooth.
Pesto – Blend the basil, garlic, oil, walnuts and lemon juice until smooth.
Salad – Combine the spinach, tomatoes, corn, spring onions and coriander leaf. Add a little oil, juice and salt to taste.
Place the salad on the plate, top with the mushrooms with the cashew sauce and pesto.
Preparation
Thickly slice the aubergine, keeping the stem. Salt the slices & leave for 30 mins approx to draw out the excess fluid.
Method
For the sweet potato layer: sautee the onion with the thyme until sticky & brown. Steam & mash the sweet potato & combine with the onion mixture (discarding the thyme sprig)
For the mushroom layer: sautee the mushrooms until they release their juices. Season with black pepper & add the spring onion. When all the liquid is gone, add a splash of whiskey & cook just until the alcohol has evaporated.
For the micro ratatouille layer: sautee the onions, garlic & peppers until the onions begin to soften. Add the dried herbs, courgettes & tomatoes & continue to cook until the courgettes are just beginning to soften. Remove from the heat and add the basil.
Prepare the aubergine slices: rinse to remove all traces of the salt. Dry the slices thoroughly & grill, turning once during cooking. Don’t forget the stem!
Assemble the tower: place one filling on top of each aubergine slice. Serve immediately & enjoy!
Method
To make the pastry, sieve the flour into a large bowl and rub in the cubes of vegan margarine with your fingertips until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. Work quickly and with a light touch to avoid the fat melting. Check for any remaining lumps of margarine by shaking the bowl to bring them to the surface.
Make a well in the centre of the mixture and add some chilled water, a little at a time. Lightly work the mixture to form a ball, adding a sprinkle of flour if the mixture is too wet, or a touch more water if it’s too dry. Cover and chill for 20-30 minutes.
Grease a 9” fluted flan tin, preferably with a removable base. Roll the pastry out thinly on a lightly floured surface and line the tin. For an extra finishing touch, you can crimp the edge with your thumb. Prick over the pastry case with a fork, to prevent the base puffing up during baking. Cover and return to the fridge while you prepare the filling.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 200ºC/400ºF/Gas Mark 6 and put in a heavy baking tray to heat through. Baking the pie on a hot baking sheet will ensure a crisp base to the pastry case.
To make the filling, gently warm the syrup over a low heat, making sure it doesn’t boil. Stir in the brown sugar and vanilla extract.
Remove from the heat and add the breadcrumbs and chopped pecans. Add a few more breadcrumbs if the mixture seems a bit runny.
Pour the mixture into the pastry case and level the surface. Decorate the top with the whole pecan nuts, placing them in concentric circles.
Bake the pie on the preheated baking tray for about 10 minutes until the pastry has started to colour, then reduce the oven temperature to 180ºC/350ºF/Gas Mark 4. If the pecans appear to be getting too dark brown, cover the pie with foil.
Continue baking for a further 25-30 minutes until the pastry is golden and the filling is lightly firm and set. The top should be chewy and the middle soft and moist, with the pecans nice and crunchy.
Remove from the oven and leave in the tin to cool a little and firm up. Serve your pie warm or cold. You could add a dash of maple syrup to your favourite vegan cream or ice cream alternative to accompany this wonderfully gooey treat.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
In a small bowl whisk together the ground psyllium husks/ground flax seeds with the water. Set aside to thicken into your egg mixture.
In a medium bowl, mix together the flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat together the vegan butter, sugars, soy milk and psyllium/flax egg mixture until smooth and fluffy. Add the peanut butter and tahini and beat for another few minutes.
Add the flour mixture and beat gently until just combined. Finally add the chocolate chips, reserving a small handful for decorating the top of the cookies later.
Cover the dough with cling film and place in the fridge for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 170c and line two baking trays with baking parchment.
Using a cookie dough scoop or a tablespoon, place scoops of dough around the size of walnuts on the prepared baking trays with a few inches between each cookie. You should fit 10 per tray.
Top each cookie with a couple of the reserved chocolate chips. Sprinkle the tops of the cookies with the sesame seeds and the flaky sea salt.
Gently press down each ball of dough with a fork. Don’t worry about making a pattern or design on top – this will disappear as they bake.
Bake for 20 minutes, being careful not to let the cookies burn on the edges. Remove from the oven and leave to cool fully on a wire cooling rack.
Once cooled, serve and enjoy!
Did you enjoy these cookies? Explore more of our vegan sweet treats! 
Method
Soak the raw cashews for 4 hours or overnight (the cashews will plump up!), drain away the water and place the soaked cashews in a blender or food processor.
Add the remaining sauce ingredients and blend for a few seconds to form a creamy sauce.
Spiralise your courgettes. If you do not have a spiraliser, vegetable peeler peelings can be used.
In a big non-stick pan, melt the coconut oil. Add crushed garlic and vegan bacon. Sauté for about 3 mins before adding in the spiralised courgettes, mushrooms and edamame beans. Continue cooking for about 6-8 mins to cook through and to evaporate as much moisture as possible (this prevents the final sauce from becoming too watery).
Add the carbonara sauce to the vegetables and cook though for 4-5 mins. Serve, garnishing with fresh herbs and ground flaxseed to boost the nutritive profile.
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C/gas mark 6 and roast the cherry tomatoes for 10 minutes.
Cover the bottom of a pan with cold water and place a steamer above it. Put the broccoli, green beans and carrots in the steamer, turn the heat on quite high and steam for about 15 minutes, occasionally prodding the carrots with a fork to see if they are done. Some people like them slightly crunchy, others prefer them a little softer.
While the vegetables are steaming, make a salad with the leaves and spring onions.
Combine the polenta and herbs in a bowl. Heat some olive oil in a frying pan. Dip the tofu in the polenta mixture, then fry until golden.
Whisk together the ingredients for the dressing, but only pour over at the last minute.
Assemble your meal by first putting the salad on the plate, then the warm vegetables and finally the tofu. Pour over the dressing then add a little seasoning sauce such as Braggs or a sauce of your choice.
Method
Using either a pestle and mortar, grind the chillies and garlic to a paste.
Heat the oil in a wok set over a high heat. Add the chilli and garlic mixture and stir-fry for about 30 seconds, until nice and golden brown.
Now add the tofu or TVP chunks, both soy sauces, the palm sugar and white pepper and cook, tossing everything around in the pan, for about 1 minute, until the tofu or TVP is well coated and has taken on a little colour from the sauces.
Once everything is mixed well, add the onion, peppers and long beans and cook for a further 30 seconds, all the while tossing the mixture together. Throw in the basil and lime leaves and stir-fry for a further 30 seconds. Serve immediately with jasmine rice.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan Thai recipes.
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Spray a muffin tin with cooking spray and set aside. 
2. In a medium bowl combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and nut butter. 
3. Combine the almond milk, sugar, oil, and vanilla extract, whisking together until the sugar has completely dissolved. Add the wet ingredients to dry ingredients and mix together. 
4. Break up the chocolate into pieces and fold into the batter, along with the raspberries. 
5. Spoon the batter into the prepared baking tin so that the muffin moulds are two thirds of the way full. Bake for 20-25 minutes until lightly brown and a knife inserted in the middle comes out clean.
6. Remove from the oven, allow to cool.
Method
Pour the juice into a small saucepan and add the salt. Sprinkle the agar-agar flakes on top and heat without stirring, then simmer for 3-5 minutes, stirring occasionally until the flakes dissolve.
Place the fruit in whatever moulds or bowls you have chosen. Pour over the hot liquid, allow to cool and then place in the refrigerator to set.
Note: soft fruits such as berries, cherries, peaches or melons do not need to be cooked with agar- agar.  However, firmer fruits such as apples or pears need to be peeled, chopped and cooked in the agar- agar and juice mixture to soften them.
Agar flakes are sold in many supermarkets, they are a natural gelatine made from dried seaweed.
Method
Heat the oil in a saucepan over medium-low heat. Add leeks, and cook 10 minutes, or until soft, stirring often.  Add squash and pears, and sauté 5 minutes. Stir in the bouillon, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low, and add salt, if desired.
Simmer 20 minutes, or until squash is fork-tender.  Remove from heat, and stir in coconut milk. Purée the soup in a blender or food processor, blend until smooth. Return soup to saucepan, and stir in thyme. Reheat over medium-low heat 2 to 3 minutes, or until warmed through. Serve garnished with pumpkin seeds.
Preparation
These puddings take less than 5 minutes to make, but they need to be refrigerated overnight. If you like your desserts a little sweeter, 1 tbsp agave syrup would work well.
Method
This recipe is for two servings
Put all of the ingredients in a bowl and stir until well-combined
Divide the mixture into two glasses
Cover with cling film and place in the fridge overnight
Now go to bed and dream of the delicious dessert you’ll be eating tomorrow!
Feeling inspired? Why not check out our vegan desserts blog?
Method
Rinse and drain the banana blossoms before preparing your flour mixture and batter.
To prepare your batter, simply whisk together the flour, m.lk, water, baking powder and salt in a bowl until smooth.
Coat the banana blossoms in flour mixture and then dip the banana blossoms in the batter.
Fry until golden, removing any excess oil on a kitchen towel.
 Serve with a generous helping of chips and tomato ketchup.
For more recipes like this, sign up to Veganuary. You’ll get our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, recipes and more – all for free! You can thank us later.
Preparation
Basic Salad Dressing:
Place all the ingredients marked with a (*)  into a blender.
Adjust ingredients according to taste.
Store in a sealed glass jar in the refrigerator and keep for up to 5 days.
Method
Bring the quinoa and water to a boil in a pan, and simmer on a very low heat 15-20 minutes until the water is absorbed.
Remove from heat and put into a large bowl and leave to cool then fluff up with a fork.
Add the fresh salad greens and radishes to a large salad bowl and pour over some of the dressing.  Stir in the quinoa and serve.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Chop carrots and potatoes and place in an oven proof dish, drizzle with olive oil, finely chopped garlic and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Slow roast at 150-160 degrees Celsius for 1 hour.
Chop the cauliflower (minus the leaves) and boil in salted water until soft, drain and put in a food processor with a teaspoon of mixed herbs, a pinch of salt and a drizzle of olive oil. Blend until smooth.
Lightly toss the broccoli in olive oil with a little salt and pepper in a pan over a high heat for 1-2 minutes.
Put gravy granules in a jug with a heaped teaspoon of mint sauce. Add boiling water to your preferred consistency and serve.
Preparation
In a mixing bowl, add the flour, ground almonds, ginger, baking powder, bicarbonate of soda and xylitol and stir through.
Add the agave syrup, vegetable oil and soya yoghurt and mix – but not to thoroughly because you don’t want to overwork the mixture. Stir through the chopped plums.
In a muffin tray, place 12 muffin cases and spoon the mixture to evenly fill the cases.
Bake in the oven for 20-25 minutes until cooked through. Pop a skewer through one of the muffins and if it comes out clean, they’re cooked.
Method
Pre-heat the oven to 180C. 
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 180C. Toss the sweet potato in a little sunflower oil, season and roast in the oven for 20 minutes until soft.
Add the spinach, spring onion tops, coriander (leaves and stems), green curry paste, soya sauce or tamari and Alpro Coconut Unsweetened drink to a blender or food processor and blend until smooth
In a large frying pan over a medium heat sauté the baby corn for 2-3 minutes until starting to colour, add in the tomato’s and sauté for 30 seconds
Lower the heat and add in the green sauce, peas and sweet potato heating through until the sauce is hot
Finely chop the white parts of the spring onion. Add the lime juice to the curry and season to taste. Sprinkle over the spring onions and serve with brown or white rice.
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 220C / gas mark 7 and boil a kettle.
2. Dice the onion and red pepper. Roughly chop the coriander.
3. Heat a large pan with 1 tbsp oil on a medium heat and add the brown onion and red pepper, cook for 7 mins until softened.
4. Meanwhile, drain the chickpeas. Reserve 1-2 tbsp of the liquid. In a large bowl, mash the chickpeas until they are all crushed, you can use a potato masher or a fork to do this.
5. Mix in the chickpea flour, reserved chickpea liquid, sumac, half of the ground cumin and half of the fresh coriander. Season with sea salt and black pepper.
7. Form the mix into 12 small balls to form falafels. Place the falafels on a baking tray and drizzle with 1/2 tbsp oil. Place in the oven for 15 mins until turning golden.
8. Add the chopped tomatoes, harissa paste and remaining ground cumin to the onion and pepper pan. Season with sea salt and black pepper and cook for 15 mins until thickened.
9. Meanwhile, make the turmeric drizzle; dissolve the creamed coconut in 30ml boiling water and stir in the turmeric with a pinch of sea salt and black pepper.
10. Spoon the tomato shakshuka into two warm bowls (or serve in the pan) and nestle the falafels into the sauce. Sprinkle over the flaked almonds, remaining coriander and spoon over the turmeric drizzle.
Method
Once you have boiled the beans and taken the thick outer skins off you should have around 5 to 6 tablespoons of beautiful vivid beans.
Pour the olive oil into a small frying pan and place on a medium heat until the garlic begins to sizzle but not colour.
Add the beans to the pan and stir to incorporate the garlic.  Keep stirring for a couple of minutes, the beans only need warming through rather than frying.
While the beans are heating through toast the rye bread and spread with a layer of cream cheese.
Add the lemon juice and mint to the pan and remove from the heat.
Stir in the tahini and carefully spoon the beans onto the toast.
Enjoy!
Method
Fry the onion in the oil for 3-4 minutes, add the garlic and spices, and then the vegetables, turning them to coat them.
Add the stock and the bay leaf, then the beans. Bring to the boil.
Simmer for 10-12 minutes or until the sweet potato is tender, adding a little more water if it starts to dry out
Remove from the heat, stir in the orange zest and remove the bay leaf before serving. It’s even better the next day!
Want more recipes? Sign up to Veganuary to have them sent straight to your inbox (it’s free!)
Method
Mousse 1 – thyme and sea salt
Soak the dates in boiling water for 5 minutes, discard the water
Blend the avocado using a hand blender till smooth
Add the dates and blend again, you may have to move the blender up and down to get a smooth consistency
Add the cacao and the thyme, blend again
Pour into a serving dish, sprinkle with the sea salt and decorate with more thyme leaves
Mousse 2 – coffee and pistachio
Soak the dates in boiling water for 5 minutes, discard the water
Blend the avocado using a hand blender till smooth
Add the dates and blend again, you may have to move the blender up and down to get a smooth consistency
Add the cacao and the coffee, blend again
Grind the cardamom in a pestle and mortar
Add the pistachios to roughly grind them
Put 1/2t of the nuts aside for the topping
Add the rest of the nuts to the mousse and mix well
Pour into a serving dish, sprinkle with the remaining pistachio cardamom mixture
Mousse 3 – raspberry and almond
Soak the dates in boiling water for 5 minutes, discard the water
Blend the avocado using a hand blender till smooth
Add the dates and blend again, you may have to move the blender up and down to get a smooth consistency
Add the cacao and the almond essence, blend again
Pour into a serving dish, scatter the raspberries and push them down into the pudding
Preparation
Serves four, generously
Method
Steam or boil the swede until soft, drain and allow to steam dry, ensuring all excess water is drained off.
Purée the swede with an immersion blender, in a food processor or mash well by hand.
Mix in the remaining ingredients, it should be a firm batter of dropping consistency, add more flour if necessary.
Use an ice cream scoop to place scoops of batter into a pot of soup of stew and simmer for 20 minutes. Optionally, place under a grill for a minute or two to brown the tops.
Method
Place the agave syrup and 1 tbsp boiling water in a shallow small bowl.
Place the toasted chicken-style strips in another small bowl.
Dip each strips in the mix and then into the seasme seeds and coat both sides.
Lay strips on a baking tray and place in the fridge for 15 minutes.
When ready, warm a little grapeseed oil in a frying pan and toast the strips on.
The strips can burn very easily so watch carefully!
To serve:
In an individual bowl, place the salad ingredients.
Slice avocado thinly and place on top of the salad ingredients.
Top with the warm strips and serve with the well mixed Thai dressing.
Method
Heat your oven to 180c/360f/GM4.
Put the flour and salt in a bowl, mix well. Put the spinach, margarine and water in a jug, blend, with a hand blender, until smooth. Add the spinach mixture to the flour, mix into a dough. If it is too sticky add more flour.
Roll out the dough to 5mm thickness. Cut out 4 circles of dough and 4 trees. Place the circles into the tart tins ensuring the dough goes up the sides. Trim the edges with a sharp knife and prick the bottom with a fork. Bake the tart base for around 10 minutes until they have dried out.
In a large frying pan heat the oil on a medium heat. Once hot, add the shallots and squash, cook for 8-12 minutes until the shallots are translucent. Add the walnuts, tamari, vinegar, sage, rosemary and nutmeg. Take the pan off the heat.
Whisk the tofu, milk, cornflour and stock in a small bowl. Add this to the pan and mix in. Divide this mixture between the tart bases. Top each tart with a tree, brush a little milk onto each tree and the tart edges. Bake for a further 10-15 minutes until cooked through.
Top each tart with half a tomato before serving.
Preparation
Pre heat the oven to the recommended temperature for the burgers
Method
Bake the crumbed chicken burgers in a preheated oven for 10 minutes.
Chop the chillies and place in a small saucepan with the olive oil and smoked paprika and gently fry over a low heat for 2 to 3 minutes.
Serve the chicken burgers on the buns with a base of the chilli relish topped with a generous dollop of mayonnaise, sliced purple spring onions and fresh mango and pineapple and a spoonful of Pomegranate.
Preparation
Place a large pan over medium heat with 2-3tbsp of oil, and cook the onions until soft and tender, for about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for another minute until fragrant. Add the chipotle peppers and the diced tomatoes with their liquid. Stir frequently and cook until the sauce thickens and the liquid has mostly evaporated, for about 20 minutes. Stir in The Meatless Farm Co mince, green onions and coriander. Reduce the heat to low, enough to keep the mixture warm.
Heat a clean grill pan on medium heat. We like to put a touch of oil in the pan to make the tortilla extra crispy, but that’s not necessary, it’s just a matter of preference. Place the tortilla on a hot grill, cover with a layer of cheese, then spread some of The Meatless Farm Co chipotle mixture over half. Once the cheese has melted, fold the tortilla over to make your quesadilla. Repeat with remaining tortillas, they can be kept warm in the oven until you’re ready to serve. Allow them to rest for a couple of minutes before slicing to ensure everything doesn’t ooze out.
Serve with fresh lime slices, cashew sour cream, avocado slices and extra coriander.
Method
Heat oil in a large saucepan and sauté onions, garlic and spices.
Add celery, carrots, potatoes, beans and tomato (puree and tinned).
Add fresh/dried herbs.
Dissolve cubes in the boiling water.
Cover vegetables with water and allow to slowly simmer for approx 1 hour.
Blend and add seasoning to taste.
Add more liquid if too thick.
Serve hot with drizzle of coconut cream.
For optional extra heat/spice, add chopped de-seeded chillies.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan soup recipes.
Method
Pre-heat the oven to 180°C
Melt the cocoa butter
Add the sweet potato, oats, sun dried tomatoes, tomato puree & pea protein into a mixing bowl, and stir in the melted butter and oil. Add the bouillon and pumpkin seeds
Put the mixture into a shallow baking tray and spread out evenly
Bake in the oven for 25 minutes or until slightly brown
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C/180Fan Gas 6. Drain the Tofoo and pat dry.
Peel the potatoes and cut into chips, bring a large pan of lightly salted water to the boil and cook the cut potato for 5 minutes, drain well then toss with the olive oil. Spread out onto a non stick baking tray and cook in the oven for 30 minutes, turning half way through cooking time.
While the chips are cooking, Cook the peas in a pan of boiling water for 5 minutes, drain and tip into a food processor with the crème fraiche, blitz until well combined .Heat gently.
Cut the Tofoo into 4 slabs and dust in the seasoned flour. Blitz the self-rising flour with the seaweed and add the ale, blitz again until you have a smooth creamy batter.
Heat about 8cm oil in a pan to 180°C. Take a piece of tofu and dip in the batter to coat evenly, carefully lower into the hot fat and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, until golden and crispy. Repeat with the other 3 pieces.
Serve cooked Tofish with chips and a spoon full of peas, garnish with lemon wedges.
Method
Place vegetable broth and lentils in a pan. Cook for around 15 mins until liquid has evaporated and lentils are cooked but still have a bite (if the lentils take longer to cook add more liquid). When the lentils are cooked, drain any left over liquid from the lentils and keep covered.
In the meantime heat some olive oil in a casserole dish. Gently fry together onion and 2 crushed garlic cloves until soft while you cut the vegetables.
Peel carrots and cut into small dice. Chop the leek finely.
Add cut vegetables in the casserole dish. Add bay leaves and thyme and cook at medium heat until vegetables are soft. (Add more olive if necessary)
Once the vegetables are soft, add lentils and diced smoked tofu. Mix well.
Make dressing in a separate bowl by mixing together mustard, 5 tbsp olive oil, balsamic vinegar and 1 crushed garlic clove.
Add dressing to the lentil salad along with the capers and finely chopped parsley leaves. Toss well. Season to taste.
Serve warm.
Method
Stir all the ingredients (except the berries and syrup) together to form a smooth, thick batter 
Melt a little coconut oil in a pan over a medium heat 
Once warm, spoon a large tablespoon of the batter into the pan 
Cook on one side for 3-4 minutes then flip 
Drizzle with maple syrup & top with fresh berries  
Method
Cut the cauliflower from top to bottom in 1 inch thick slices, then lay the slices out on a baking tray lined with greaseproof paper.
Peel the garlic cloves and place them among the cauliflower.
Sprinkle the cauliflower with a pinch each of salt and pepper, and 2 pinches of mixed herbs, making sure that each piece of cauliflower gets some.
Drizzle olive oil over each piece of cauliflower, then roast in the oven for 25 minutes.
Serve and enjoy!
Preparation
Mix the flour, baking powder and lucuma together in a large bowl.
In a separate bowl, mix the chia eggs and vanilla bean paste together. Add the almond milk a little at a time, stirring well, until it has combined with the chia mix.
Create a hole in the middle of the dry ingredients and slowly begin to pour in the chia mix, stirring constantly to form a batter. Be careful not to mix the batter any more than necessary – it doesn’t need to be completely smooth. Now add the melted butter and gently mix in.
Set the batter aside for ten minutes.
In the meantime, add the spiralised apple, cinnamon and water into a large pan. Heat over a medium high heat and simmer for ten minutes until the apples are soft.
Set the waffle maker to heat up.
Gently mix the apples into the waffle batter and scoop around a quarter (depending on the size of your waffle maker) of the mix onto the iron. Press and cook according to your machine and preference (I chose a medium setting).
Once cooked and golden brown, remove the waffle from the machine and place on a piece of kitchen paper to prevent it becoming soggy.
Repeat the process for each waffle.
Serve with plant-based honey, syrup or a caramel sauce.
Method
Make sure you have the firmest tofu you can purchase.
Carefully tear apart the tofu into bite size pieces and place into a large bowl.
In a medium sized bowl add the rest of the ingredients (except for the oil) and mix well.
Add each piece of tofu to the seasoned flour to coat completely and evenly on all side.
In a medium cast iron pan (or sauté pan) add enough oil to cover the bottom about 1 cm deep.
Heat on med-high heat until hot.
When the oil is hot, begin by adding 6-7 pieces of breaded tofu to the pan at time and pan fry each side until completely golden brown. When done remove from oil and place on paper towel lined plate to dry.
When ready to serve preheat oven to 200c/400f.
Place the crispy tofu onto a baking sheet and roast in oven for 15 minutes.
Remove from oven and serve with our vegan gravy and all the fixings.
Explore more vegan Christmas and Thanksgiving recipes.
Method
Slice the courgettes and peppers using a food processor with the slicing blade. (You can also slice by hand, but I find this process much quicker).
Heat the oil over medium in a large pan. Add the onion with a pinch of salt and sauté until soft and translucent (around 5-6 minutes). Add the garlic and cook for another 1-2 minutes, taking care not to let it burn.
Add the peppers, courgettes and spices, stirring well to ensure everything is coated, around 2-3 minutes. Reduce the heat slightly and cover, cooking until the veggies have softened and cooked through, around 6 minutes.
Remove from the heat and adjust for flavor. Serve with warm tortillas, Mexican Rice and black beans and top with avocado, tomatoes, hot sauce and lime.
Method
To make the crust, place all ingredients in a bowl and mix well, until combined. Transfer in a greased tart tin, with a 20cm diameter and use your fingers to spread the pastry out evenly.  
Place in a preheated oven at 180°C for 15-20 minutes. Set aside to cool.  
For the banana caramel cream, place all ingredients in an electric mixer and beat until creamy. Pour into the baked crust and place in the fridge to set for 2 hours.  
To make the whipped cream, combine the Violife Creamy (or other vegan cream cheese) with the coconut milk, whisking constantly, until a whipped cream consistency is created. Place in a piping bag to decorate the banoffee tart.  
Meanwhile, make the Cocospread syrup by whisking together the chocolate spread with the coconut milk, until combined.  
Decorate the cake with banana slices, whipped cream and a drizzle of Cocospread syrup.
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Lightly oil a 9×3-inch loaf pan and dust it with flour.
Method
In a small bowl, whisk together the flaxseed meal and water. Let stand for 5-10 minutes, or until a gel-like texture forms.
In a large bowl, combine the quinoa flakes, oat flour, baking powder, and cinnamon.
In a smaller bowl, mash the bananas. Add the flax mixture, applesauce, and maple syrup, and whisk well to combine.
Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix until well incorporated.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for 30 minutes. Remove from the oven, cover the pan with aluminum foil, and bake for another 15 minutes, or until a toothpick or sharp knife inserted into the center of the loaf comes out clean.
Method
Bring 4 cups of water to a boil.
In a medium bowl, add cajun seasoning or paprika/cayenne mix to dry rice and mix well and add into into boiling water and set aside to cook down.
Add olive oil to a medium pot and heat to medium. Sauté peppers, onions, and celery until translucent but still crispy.
Add in the diced tomatoes and season with salt & pepper to taste.
Mix in your veggie mix, soy chorizo and tomato sauce to your finished rice. Incorporate well and serve!
Method
Rinse the rice with water until the water is clear.
Put the washed rice in a big saucepan with the water, salt, cinnamon stick and lemon rind.
Cook it on medium heat until the water has evaporated.
Then add the milk (don’t let the rice stick or burn) and wait till it bubbles; keep stirring.
Now add the sugar and keep stirring for some minutes until everything is creamy.
Even if it’s a bit runny, don’t worry, it will thicken once it’s cold.
Turn off the heat and add the lemon zest.
Pour everything into a low dish and let it cool down, as it cools down it will thicken more.
When it is cold have fun decorating with cinnamon powder.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Put all the ingredients into a blender – I always put the fruit first. (Make sure you peel the mango – I then just cut mine straight into the blender, discarding the stone once I’ve got as much flesh off as possible.)
Blend and drink!
Mmmmmm… Oh so tropical!
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C and line a baking tray with greaseproof paper unless you’re using a non stick tray.
Add the meatball ingredients to a food processor and process the ingredients together until the mixture reaches a rough consistency, ensuring some larger pieces remain. It’s really important you avoid processing the ingredients for too long, otherwise the meatballs will turn into a mush!
Take roughly a tbsp of the mixture in your hand and roll it into a ball, then place it on the baking tray. Repeat until all the mixture has been used up and you’re left with 12 balls.
Transfer the baking tray to the oven and bake the balls for 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce by first adding a little oil to a frying pan on a medium heat. When the oil is hot, add the red onion and fry for 3 minutes. Then add the carrot and fry for a further 3 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Next, add the wine to the pan and simmer on a low heat for 5 minutes.
Then add the vegetable stock, sauce, and finally add the meatballs to the pan. Simmer for 10-12 minutes, or until the sauce has started to thicken.
Remove the pan from the hob and serve. We recommend serving with mashed potato and a sprinkle of basil. Enjoy!
Did you enjoy this dish? Check out more of our budget-friendly vegan recipes. 
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Mix arrowroot into the sherry/water, whisking well.
Bring to the boil, stirring continuously.
Add the sugar and vanilla extract and simmer for a few minutes – until the sugar is dissolved.
Let it cool – you want the sauce to be just warm.
Split the dates with a sharp knife and spoon cream cheese into each one. Place the dates on a serving plate, drizzle the sauce artistically around them and serve.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180c/ gas mark 4
Halve and de-seed the peppers. Rub them with a little olive oil and place on a baking tray with the halved garlic and roast for 40 minutes, or until the peppers are wrinkly and blackened.
Place the cooked peppers in a bowl and cover with cling film to trap the heat and help release the skin. When cool peel off the skins.
Peel and dice the onion. Fry the onion, cumin seeds and bay leaves in olive oil for 15 minutes until the onion is translucent, add the garlic, the peeled peppers, the salt, sugar and chilli.
Add the stock and bring to the boil. Simmer with a lid on for 5 minutes.
Remove the bay leaves and blend the soup until it is smooth. Add more lemon juice, sugar and salt to taste.
To serve, sprinkle the top with generous amounts of parsley and top with a spoonful of dairy-free yoghurt.
Preparation
Serves 2.
Method
Wash the sweet potatoes and bake them in the oven until soft.
Grate the ginger and gently fry in some olive oil.
Once the potatoes have cooked, peel and put the flesh into a mixing bowl.
Using a mixer, either free standing or hand held, beat the sweet potato along with the ginger, salt and pepper until you have a smooth consistency.
Method
Preheat the oven to 220C/fan200C/gasmark 7.
Drain the tofu and pat dry with a paper towel, then cut into 12-16 equal cubes. Heat a non-stick frying pan with 1tbsp oil on a medium-high heat. Add the tofu and cook for 5-7mins, stirring occasionally, until golden brown.
Meanwhile,make the tikka marinade. Peel the garlic and grate or finely chop. Cut the lime in half. Place the garlic into  a small bowl followed by half the coconut yoghurt, the tikka masala paste, juice from half the lime and a pinch of sea salt. Mix well.
When the tofu is cooked, thread 3-4 cubes onto each skewer. Place all the skewers onto a baking tray or in an ovenproof dish. Spoon the tikka marinade evenly over the tofu to coat, then bake in the oven for 7 mins.
Roughly chop the kale. To the same frying pan used to cook the tofu, add the rice, turmeric, kale, 2 tbsp water and a pinch of sea salt and black pepper. Cook on a medium heat for 5 mins, until the rice is hot and the kale has wilted.
Make the red cabbage and apple slaw. Very finely slice the red cabbage and roughly chop the coriander leaves. Cut the apple in half and grate half of it, leaving the skin on (enjoy the second half as a snack!). Place the red cabbage, grated apple and coriander into a small bowl. Add the remaining coconut yoghurt and the juice from the remaining half lime. Stir to combine and season with sea salt.
Spoon the turmeric rice and kale into warm bowls. Serve with the red cabbage and apple slaw. Place the baked tofu skewers on top.
Method
Chick’n Fillets
Combine herbs and paprika with the olive oil. Brush lightly over the fillets and cook as per packet instructions. Once cooked, slice thinly. Set aside.
Salsa
Place tomatoes, red onion, red wine vinegar, lime juice and seasoning into a food processor. Pulse to lightly chop/combine. Don’t over process. The tomatoes should contain some of their shape. You can also do this by hand by finely chopping the tomatoes and red onion and combining with the other ingredients. Set aside.
Avo Smash
Scoop the two avos out into a bowl. Add the spices, seasoning, lemon juice and zest and roughly mash with a fork. Set aside.
Chipotle Mayo Drizzle
Combine the mayo and chipotle spice and mix to combine.
To assemble:
1. Warm the tortillas according to packet instructions.
2. Assemble with a few slices of fillet, red onion, red/yellow and piquante peppers, and fresh coriander.
3. Top with some salsa, avo and a drizzle of lime juice.
4. Wrap tightly and enjoy!
Tip: for some added heat, why not add some finely chopped red chillies. You can enjoy these sprinkled on top of your filling or added to your salsa.
Method
Whisk together all batter ingredients. Start with 160ml of almond or cashew milk and add more to create a thick but pourable batter.
Heat a non-stick pan over a medium heat. Lightly grease with spray oil.
Cook ¼ cup (60ml) measures of the batter to make 5 -6 pancakes. Allow to cook for 2 -3 minutes, flip and cook for 1 -2 minutes more.
For the sauce, whisk together all ingredients in a small pot, bring the boil and simmer for 2 – 3 minutes. Add a little HOT water if it gets too thick.
Store leftovers of sauce in the fridge for up to two days, reheat as needed in a pot or in short 20 second burst in the microwave.
Preparation
Serves 2.
Made using Provamel Rice Coconut Pineapple Drink.
Method
Peel and slice the bananas.
Cube the pineapple and put all the ingredients in a blender.
Mix until creamy and garnish with a slice of pineapple and some fruit.
Method
The night before, make the broth by wiping the kombu with a clean cloth, then steeping in cold water overnight. Remove the seaweed, retaining the broth. (If short of time, steep the kombu in the water for 30 mins, then heat to near-boiling but DO NOT let it boil!)
Combine all the dipping sauce ingredients and refrigerate.
When you are ready to eat, place the broth in a pan on the portable stove and bring it to a gentle boil. Start adding ingredients from the platter. Vegetables like carrots and cabbage take a little longer to cook, so put some of those in first, then the tofu, and pick them back out when they are done! Keep adding ingredients from your platter. Don’t worry – it is very hard to get this wrong!!
As the tofu and vegetables come out of the pot, dip them in the sauce and eat straight away.
Method
Shallow fry the onions and potatoes for around five minutes, or until the potatoes begin to soften, remove from the oil and place aside in a bowl
Put chickpea flour in a bowl and slowly add cold water while mixing until you get a consistency similar to pancake batter, pour over the potatoes and onions, season with salt and pepper and mix well
Pour the mixture back into your reasonably well-oiled frying pan and cook over medium heat or until the edges and top begin to solidify
Here comes the fun part! Take a dinner plate, run it quickly under the tap to dampen it, place it over the top of your frying pan and tip then tip the pan upside down so that the tortilla ends up on your plate
Gently slide the tortilla back into the pan, sometimes it will need a little encouragement from a spoon or spatula as it won’t be firm, don’t worry, this is normal!
Cook for another few minutes, let cool and enjoy!
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
Makes: about 24 squares
Preparation time: 15 minutes, plus 2 hours setting time
Method
Line the base of a 18cm square cake tin with baking paper
Place the Nākd Cocoa Delight Bits, dairy free spread, chocolate and syrup in a medium pan, heat gently and stir occasionally until the butter and chocolate have melted and the Nākd Cocoa Delight Fruit & Nut Bits have softened slightly
 Pour all the remaining ingredients, including the Nākd Cherry Infused Raisins, into the chocolate mixture and stir until all the ingredients are evenly coated
 Tip the mixture into the prepared tin and even out the mixture with the back of a spoon, pressing the mixture together
 Chill for at least 2 hours or until firm
 Turn out onto a board and remove the baking paper. Serve cut into squares
 Cook’s tip: The mixture will keep for up to 1 week in an airtight container.
Method
Defrost the Like Breaded Chicken fillets.
Make the Vegan Honey BBQ Sauce:
Measure out ketchup, honey, vinegar and brown sugar into a small saucepan and heat gently, stirring until smooth. Stir the liquid smoke and the rest of the ingredients into the ketchup mixture, reduce heat to low, and simmer until thickened, about 20 minutes.
While the sauce is simmering, chop your veggies chunkily. Toss in a little oil to coat.
Carefully cut each Like Breaded Chicken fillet into 5-6 pieces with a sharp knife and place in a large bowl/tub.
When the Vegan Honey BBQ Sauce is ready, drizzle it over the Like Breaded Chicken pieces and stir gently to ensure they’re evenly coated.
Thread veggies and the sauce coated Like Breaded Chicken pieced onto skewers. (If using wooden skewers, wet them first to avoid them burning when grilling.)
Cook skewers on the barbecue for around 20 mins until piping hot, turning regularly, and veggies are nicely charred round the edges.
If the weather is not right for a barbecue, you can cook the dish in an oven proof tray in the middle of the oven, pre-heated to 200°c.
Serve the Like Breaded Chicken skewers with a fresh summer salad and boiled new potatoes, tossed in plant based butter and topped with chopped fresh chives.
Recipe & photo: Rachel Clarke @myvegandiary87 
Method
Mix the oats, soya alternative to yoghurt and cinnamon
Fill a mason jar with a layer of the oat mixture
Add a layer of banana and nuts
Again another layer of oats and top it off once more with bananas and nuts
Leave in the fridge for 1 night
Method
Heat the oil in a large pan
Add the onion, fry it on a medium heat until soft
Add the garlic and fry for another 5 minutes
Add the mushrooms, thyme, water, stock and tempeh
Simmer for 15 minutes, blend with a hand blender till smooth
Taste and add salt and white pepper to your personal preference
Grind the black peppercorns in a pestle and mortar
Cut the kale flowers or sprouts in half length ways
Heat a little oil in a frying pan on a high heat, add the kale flowers/sprouts
Fry for a few minutes, add a splash of water, a dash of salt and a lid or plate to completely cover
Cook for a few minutes until just cooked, you can put a fork into them
Add the lemon juice and stir, remove from the heat
Pour the soup into bowls and dress with the kale flowers/sprouts and black pepper
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 200°C/180°C fan/Gas Mark 6.
2. First, make the coconut paste. Using a food processor or stick blender, blitz the spring onions, green chilli, coriander stalks, garlic, ginger, turmeric and cumin and coriander seeds with half the can of coconut milk until a rough paste forms.
3. Bring a large saucepan of water to the boil, lower in the potatoes and boil or 15 minutes or until a sharp knife passes through them easily. Drain and set aside.
4. Place the cauliflower in a deep roasting tin and pour the remaining coconut milk around it. Scatter the kaffir lime leaves over the coconut milk. Rub 1 tablespoon of the coconut oil over the cauliflower and season well with salt and pepper. Then use a spatula or spoon to rub the spice paste all over the cauliflower, getting into every crevice of each floret. Squeeze the lime juice over the cauliflower. Cover the tin tightly with foil, place on the middle shelf of the oven and roast the cauliflower for 20 minutes.
5. Meanwhile, heat the remaining 3 tablespoons coconut oil in a separate shallow roasting tin on the top shelf of the oven above the cauliflower for a couple of minutes. Carefully remove the tin from the oven, arrange the potatoes in a single even layer in the hot oil and use a potato masher to press down on them just to split their skins. Scatter the mustard and coriander seeds over the top, season well with salt and pepper and roast on the top shelf for 45 minutes until the potatoes are crispy and golden all over.
6. Once the cauliflower has roasted for 20 minutes, lift the foil away and baste the top with the bubbling, spiced coconut milk from the tin. Roast, uncovered, for a further 25–30 minutes until the top of the cauliflower is crispy and charring.
7. When the roasted potatoes are done, remove the tin from the oven, scatter the kale and chopped red chillies over the potatoes and stir to coat in the flavoured oil. Roast for 5 minutes until the kale is just starting to wilt but is still bright green.
8. Lift the kale and potatoes out of the tin with a slotted spoon and arrange on a large platter. Place the cauliflower in the centre of the platter and spoon over any bright yellow liquid from the tin. Scatter over the reserved coriander leaves. At the table, use a serrated knife to slice the cauliflower into bold wedges and, if you want extra heat, garnish with the slivers of bright red chilli.
Preparation
Serves 4-6 | Dietary: Vegan, Wheat Free (without the croutons)
Method
Soup:
Pre heat the oven to 200c/ gas mark 6.
Peel the celeriac using a sharp peeler and remove any areas where the roots are still visible.
Chop into 1 cm cubes and place in a roasting tin with a splash of rapeseed or vegetable oil.
Roast the celeriac for 25 minutes or until it is softened and golden around the edges. Add the caraway seeds and return to the oven for another five minutes.
While the celeriac is roasting heat a little oil in a large sauce pan and gently cook the onion, until it is really soft and starting to caramelise. Add the garlic and fry for another 5 minutes.
Add the roasted celeriac, bouquet garni and caraway to the onion mixture and stir well.
Pour on the stock and soya milk and simmer for 5 minutes.
Remove the bouquet garni and blend until smooth with a hand blender. Taste, season and serve
Tip: A bouquet garni is a small bunch of herbs that you add to soups and stews to infuse the dish with flavour-it is removed before serving. Traditionally the herbs are “hard herbs” such as bay, rosemary, sage, thyme, all of which grow well in the British winter. You can tie them together with clean string (you can buy cooking string from kitchen shops) or use a heatproof plastic freezer clip-one that has been washed in a hot dishwasher or placed in boiling water before use to sterilise.
Croutons:
Preheat the oven to 200c/ gas mark 6
Heat a roasting dish in the oven. Add the oil and then the bread and mix well.
Cook in the oven for approximately 10 minutes and then add the chopped garlic and stir in. Return to the oven and roast for another 5-10 minutes, stirring occasionally so that the bread is crispy and golden.
Finely chop the herbs and capers together with the lemon zest.
Add the chopped herbs to the crispy croutons and mix together. Taste and add pepper (you probably won’t need salt as the capers are salty already)
Use to garnish the soup-any leftovers can be stored in an airtight box in the fridge and will keep for about 3 days.
Tips: These croutons are a great way of using up stale bread-they are traditionally made with sourdough or ciabatta style bread. You can also use a wheat free or spelt bread. Croutons on their own (without added herbs) will keep for weeks in a sealed container out of the fridge-once you add fresh herbs they won’t last so long and need to be kept cold. If you like things spicy add some flaked chilli to the croutons. Croutons don’t need to be just for soup-they are also great added to pasta dishes, rice or salads. Vary the herbs that you use – parsley is ideal but basil, chives, dill, sorrel and coriander would also work.
Method
Preheat oven to 200˚C. Put the whole pepper in a roasting tin and roast for 20 minutes until the skin starts to blacken. Remove from oven and cool. In the same roasting tin, place the bread, drizzle with oil and garlic, and toast for 10 mins.
While bread is toasting, sprinkle the red onion with salt and cover with water for 15 mins. Drain thoroughly.
Roughly chop the tomatoes and put them in a sieve. Sprinkle over plenty of salt and leave over the salad bowl to catch the juices. Peel the cooled pepper and tear into strips.
Chargrill Naked Glory Roast Tenderstrips on a hot grill pan, turning regularly.
Now assemble the salad. Add vinegar, capers, olives and bread. Mix thoroughly and add Naked Glory Roast Tenderstrips, tomatoes, onion and pepper. Enjoy!
Method
In a deep-bottomed pot, melt the coconut oil. Add the crushed garlic, chopped onions and sweet potato chunks and sauté for 5 mins.
Add the stock and bring to the boil.
Simmer the soup for approx. 13 mins until the vegetables are all soft (you can check this by poking a fork through a couple of the sweet potato chunks).
Remove from the heat. If using silken tofu or protein powder add this now and blend to make a creamy soup. (A hand-blender is great for this!)
Return the blended soup to the hob and on a low heat stir in the sweet corn, sliced peppers, most of the chopped chilli and spring onions. Stir for about 3-4 mins until cooked through.
Stir in the cashew cream or coconut cream, if using.
Stir in the milled chia seeds or protein powder if using.
Season to taste with freshly ground black pepper and salt.
Ladle into bowls and garnish with chopped spring onion, a few slices of chopped chilli and some finely chopped parsley. Enjoy!
To transform this soup into a chowder, you have options! You can add coconut cream, cashew cream or silken tofu – they all work well!
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Preparation
Serves 6
Method
To make the Mac and Cheez
Dice and steam sauté the Onion with a splash or two of water or wine, no oil is needed, no need to bother with the extra empty calories.
Add warm onions and rest of ingredients to high powered blender.
Blend all ingredients for couple minutes making sure mixture is wicked smooth.
Add about half of the sauce to the drained hot pasta and mix well.
To make the Taco Platter:
Preheat oven to 350.
Warm tortillas and fill each compartment in the cast iron pan.
Spoon the mac and cheese into each tortilla mould.
Sprinkle the tops with powdered hot sauce and sriracha.
Bake at 350 degrees for 15 minutes.
Remove and top with more sriracha as desired, topping with the cabbage shreds and basil.
Method
Heat Flora and oil in a large frying pan and fry the onion for about 5 minutes until soft.
Add crushed garlic and half the chilli and cook for 2-3 minutes.
Stir in the Thai red curry paste, coconut milk and 250ml water and bring to the boil.
Add sweet potatoes, reduce heat to a simmer and cook uncovered for 10 minutes.
Add green beans and chickpeas and cook for a further 5-10 minutes until the sweet potatoes and beans are just tender.
Stir through the lime juice and garnish the curry with remaining sliced chilli and basil leaves.
Serve with rice.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
To Make the Custard
In a small saucepan, combine 200ml of the plant milk, vanilla bean paste, and icing sugar. Whisk well to combine and place over a low heat.
Place the remaining 50ml of plant milk in a small bowl and add the cornstarch and turmeric powder. Whisk well until smooth and no lumps remain.
Gradually whisk the cornstarch mixture into the warmed plant milk. Keep whisking constantly over low heat until the mixture thickens dramatically. Once thickened, leave the mixture to bubble a couple of times before removing from the heat and vigorously whisking in the vegan butter.
Pour the custard into a baking tray (this will allow it to cool more quickly) and cover with cling film, making sure the film is making contact with the surface of the custard.
Once cooled to room temperature, refrigerate the custard for a minimum of 20 minutes.
To Peel the Peaches
If using fresh peaches rather than canned, fill a large bowl with ice cold water.
Place a medium saucepan over medium heat and bring to the boil. Once boiling, remove the pan from the heat and carefully drop the peaches into the water. Leave them there for maximum three mins or until the skins start to split.
Use a slotted spoon to remove the peaches from the hot water and put them straight into the cold water to stop them from cooking.
The skin should slip off easily, but if not, you may need to use a vegetable peeler to start the process.
Once peeled, halve the peaches and remove the stones. Set aside.
To Make the Pastries
Preheat the oven to 200c fan.
Remove the pastry from the fridge and carefully unroll onto a baking tray lined with parchment (if the end of the pastry is a little still and doesn’t want to unroll, leave it to warm up for 2 minutes).
Remove the custard from the fridge and transfer it to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Beat on high speed until smooth again. If you don’t have a stand mixer, beat with a whisk until smooth.
Divide the dough into 6 squares using a pizza cutter (for me each square was 12.5cm).
In a cup, mix together the plant milk, oil, and syrup. This will be your “egg wash”.
Using a pastry brush, apply a small amount of egg wash to the centre of each square.
Fold the corners of the square into the centre and push them down gently to stick.
Add a heaped tablespoon of custard to the centre of each pastry square. Follow with a peach half and push down gently to make sure the custard squeezes out further than the peach half.
Brush the pastry with the egg wash and place in the oven for 15-20 minutes or until the pastry is golden brown.
To Finish
Whisk together the icing sugar and plant milk until smooth and thick enough to drizzle off the whisk.
Drizzle the icing over the pastries.
Sprinkle the pistachios over the pastries before serving.
Preparation
Line or grease a square tin and preheat the oven to 180 C/350 F.
Method
Add 2 tablespoons of water to the flax and leave to one side. Whilst that is thickening, sift together the flour, salt, baking powder and tablespoon of sugar, then rub in the oil until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs.
Add the flax mixture and knead until it becomes a firm but pliable dough. Put into the tin and press to cover the bottom evenly.
Brush a thin layer of apple sauce onto the dough, then cut the apples into thin slices and layer them on top. Use the rest of the apple sauce to cover the apple slices.
Mix together the oats, sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle on top of the apples.
Bake for 1 hour.
Leave in the tin for 10 minutes, then carefully transfer to a cooling rack.
Can be eaten warm with a big scoop of coconut milk ice cream or left to cool.
Preparation
Defrost the Fry’s Asian Spiced Burgers and grate into a medium sized bowl.
Add onions, rosemary, mustard, oregano, green chillies, chickpea flour (or all-purpose flour) and water to grated burgers. Mix well to create a batter that can be rolled into balls.
Using your hands, roll the batter into small balls and set aside for 5 minutes in the fridge.
Place the meatballs in the Airfryer and cook for 8 minutes at 200°C.
Transfer the meatballs to a small ovenproof dish, add the tinned tomatoes (or pasta sauce) and place the dish into the basket of the Airfryer. Alternatively, create a “dish” out of tin foil and place the meatballs and tinned tomatoes in that.
Slide the dish into the Airfryer. Set the temperature to 170°C and the timer for 5 minutes to warm everything through.
If you have large potatoes, slice them in half. Cut slits down into the potatoes about 0.5-1cm apart and 1cm from the base.
Brush the potatoes lightly with olive oil (optional) then cook them in the Airfryer for 15 minutes at 200°C.
Open Airfryer and brush again with the oil (if required), sprinkle with the herbs and salt, and continue to cook for another 15 minutes or until the potatoes are cooked through.
Serve the meatballs with the potatoes and garnish with fresh rosemary and a green salad.
Method
Step One: marinade THIS Isn’t Chicken
1. In a bowl mix all the chicken tikka marinade ingredients together. Add the THIS chicken and stir to coat well. Leave covered in the fridge for 30 minutes so the chicken soak up the marinade.
2. Grab a skillet and drizzle some oil in the bottom of the pan, fry the marinated chicken pieces for 5 minutes until they start to change colour and brown.
Step Two: Butter Chicken Sauce 
1. Melt 1 tbsp of the vegan butter in a large pan on a medium heat, add the chopped onions, ginger and garlic. Cook for approximately 8-9 minutes until onions are soft and translucent. Add the Butter Chicken Blend and stir for a few seconds.
2. Add the tinned tomatoes, sugar, salt, plant-based milk and water, then stir until mixed well together. Cover and cook on a medium heat for 10 mins. Remove the pan from the heat and place the mixture into a blender or food processor until it forms a smooth curry texture.
3. Add the THIS isn’t chicken pieces into the sauce, stir and cook for a further 3-4 mins on medium heat until the chicken is heated through. Add the cream, remaining Tbsp of butter, and the Garam Masala. Stir and cook for a further 2 mins. Serve with a sprinkle of chopped coriander.
Preparation
Serves 6.
Method
In a large skillet, heat the water over medium heat. Add the endive, cut sides down. Cover and cook for several minutes until the outer leaves turn translucent.
Remove from the heat and uncover. Squeeze lemon juice over the endive and add salt and pepper to taste. Transfer to a serving dish and garnish with parsley. Serve immediately.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.u
Method
Generously spread the hummus onto both slices of bread
On the bottom slice, layer some salad mix
Then add the falafel patties on top – break them up so the sandwich is easier to close, and the hummus oozes into the cracks
Top with the other slice
Enjoy!
You might want to add a splash or two of hot sauce for an extra zing.
Did you like this recipe? Explore more vegan sandwich ideas.
Method
Cut the apple into medium-sized cubes, dip them into the lemon juice and set aside.  
Place the raisins into a bowl of water to hydrate. 
Wash and chop the parsley and chives. Set aside. 
In a frying pan, brown the meatballs with a splash of oil. Once golden, remove from pan and set aside. 
In the same pan, fry the apple cubes and pine nuts until lightly browned. Add the raisins and their water and cook on high heat for 2 minutes.  
Add the meatballs and season with curry powder. Stir to mix and add the almond cream and salt. Simmer for 2-3 minutes. Garnish with the chopped parsley and chives.  
Method
In a large sauce pot add cashews (if you didn’t soak them), cauliflower, garlic, a pinch of salt, bay leaf and 3 cups of water. Cover and bring to a slow boil over a medium-high heat.
Cook for 10-15 minutes or until the cauliflower easily breaks apart. Strain and remove bay leaf.
Transfer mixture to a high-speed blender (add cashews at this point if you pre-soaked them). Add pine nuts, miso and salt. Begin blending on low-speed while slowly adding the soy milk. Once incorporated, blend on high for couple minutes until the mixture is silky smooth.
Set aside half of the mixture for this recipe and save the remaining mixture in a closed container in the fridge for up to a week for other use.
To make the mushrooms
Preheat oven to 375.
Add sliced shiitakes to a small bowl and toss with 1 T of the oil, smoked paprika and pinch of black pepper. In a large oven-safe skillet, heat 2 Tbsp oil on the stovetop over medium-high heat. Add shiitake mushrooms and sauté for 2 minutes, then transfer pan directly to oven and finish roasting for 10 minutes. Remove and transfer the mushrooms to a paper towel to allow to drain and crisp up.
To complete the dish
Cook fettuccine al dente according to the package instructions, set aside.
Heat large sauce pot on medium heat until hot, then add oil, onions and sliced garlic cloves and sauté for 3 minutes until they begin to brown. Add a splash of water (or white wine if handy) to loosen, then half of the alfredo-style sauce, peas and mushrooms.
Heat for 1 minute then add pasta and stir to coat.
Remove from heat and garnish with the parsley, black pepper and salt, to taste.
Helpful Tip: while preparing this, we cooked the pasta ahead of time, and when it was time to add the pasta to the sauce we boiled a small pot of water and poured it over the cooled pasta to loosen and bring it up to temp before adding to the heating sauce.
Preparation
Serves 2.
Preheat your oven to 200c.
Method
Cut the tofu into 12 cubes, put this into a tupaware box with 2T tamari and 1T sesame oil.
Put the lid on and move the box around so that the tofu is covered.
Set to one side whilst you peel the shallots and make the marinade.
To make the marinade put the tamari, lime juice, garlic, chilli and peanut butter in a glass or cup and mix well. You might need to smush the pb with a fork, as it’s a fat it can resistant to mixing. But keep smushing and it will eventually concede and play nice.
Add the shallots and marinade to the tofu and again put the lid on and move about until all of the tofu and shallots are covered in the sauce.
Put 2 cubes of tofu and 2 shallots on each skewer, place on a baking tray, spoon any remaining sauce on and put them into the oven.
To make the crispy ‘seaweed’ put the kale in a bowl, add the tamari and date syrup, massage the kale until it has softened and it is covered with the sauce.
Put the kale on a baking tray, spreading it out so it is one layer only.
Sprinkle this with the sesame seeds and put the tray into the oven.
Bake the skewers for around 20 minutes, the edges of the tofu will brown and the skin of the shallots will blister.
Bake the kale for just 5 minutes, until it crisps up but before it becomes burnt!!
Serve with a scattering of spring onion on the skewers.
Method
1) Start by crushing 150g of Oreo biscuits. The easiest way to do this is by blitzing in a food processor but if you don’t have one feel free to pop them into a sandwich bag, cover with a cloth and smash them with a rolling pin.
2) Melt the 3tbsp of vegan margarine and add this to the crushed biscuits.
3) Press the biscuit mixture into your pan until the bottom is evenly coated and then pop this into the fridge.
4) Take the can of chilled coconut milk from the fridge, carefully open it and scoop out the hard coconut fat from the top. Be careful not to get any of the watery section as this will make it more difficult for the cheesecake to set. Add to this the tub of vegan cream cheese and powdered sugar. Blitz it all together until smooth (1-2mins).
5) Melt 150g of the chocolate, add this to the coconut/cream cheese mixture and combine.
6) After that you have a smooth, chocolate mixture, take your Oreo biscuit base out of the fridge. Dollop the coconut/cream cheese mixture on top and smooth it off.
7) Here is where a little patience is required; leave the cheesecake to chill for 2 hours although it works best if you leave it overnight (I know I couldn’t the first time so I totally wouldn’t blame you if you had 2 hours ready to count down on your stopwatch)!
8) Once chilled, take the remaining 50g of chocolate, chop it finely and use it to top the cheesecake to add texture and even more chocolatey goodness to your cheesecake.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
To make the tofu feta, put the nutritional yeast flakes into a bowl with the lemon juice and zest and leave to dissolve.
Heat the oil in a small frying pan on a medium heat and add the tofu and garlic. Pan-fry until slightly golden, then add the lemon mix, salt and pepper, bring to the boil and cook until the lemon juice has evaporated. Spoon into a bowl and allow to cool. Check that it’s just a little too salty, like feta.
To make the dressing, whisk together the lemon juice, syrup, vinegar, salt and extra virgin olive oil in a small bowl.
Mix the rocket and basil leaves together in a bowl. Drizzle 1 tablespoon of the dressing over the leaves and toss together. Keep the rest of the dressing for further dipping and drizzling.
Warm a griddle pan on a high heat and brush with a little oil. Just as the oil begins to smoke, place your figs widthways in the pan. Allow to cook for 2 minutes, basting them with balsamic vinegar as you go.Turn them when well caramelized, then remove the now sticky figs from the heat.
Scatter the leaves beautifully on plates, and top with the warm figs, a couple of spoons of the tofu feta and a sprinkling of toasted pine nuts.
Method
1. To prepare the grilled mango salsa; slice off both halves of the mango around the stone. Leaving the skin on, score each mango piece in a criss-cross pattern and place it skin down onto the hot BBQ.
2. In the meantime, fry the Pulled Oumph! in the vegetable oil in a non-stick frying pan for 4-5 minutes or until done.
3. To assemble the mango salsa, peel and cut the grilled mango into small cubes and add it to a large mixing bowl alongside the finely diced and rinsed red onion, red pepper and green chilli. Sprinkle in a handful of finely chopped fresh coriander and fresh mint, then combine the oil, apple cider vinegar, brown sugar, salt and black pepper in a small jug and drizzle it over the salsa. Mix well to evenly coat the salsa in the dressing.
4. Assemble your tacos by filling 1-2 tablespoons of the mango salsa into a lettuce leaf, top with 1-2 tablespoons of pulled Oumph! and finish off with a drizzle of chilli mayo or guacamole to serve.
Preparation
Tahini is a thick, smooth paste made from ground sesame seeds.  Serve this sauce over cooked or raw vegetables, tofu, tempeh, or use as a dip or spread.
For the Lemon Tahini Sauce: Add the light miso, tahini, tamari, lemon juice and water into a blender and blend until smooth and creamy. (ingredients marked with *)
Method
In a pan warm the olive oil and sauté the garlic then add the spring onions or leek and carrot. Pop on the lid and cook for 5 minutes until the vegetables are soft.
Pat the tofu dry with paper towel and mash with a fork in a bowl.  Add the vegetables from the pan and the remaining ingredients and form into balls, wetting your hands now and again to stop the mixture from sticking.
In a heavy bottomed pan heat the sunflower oil, bring to correct temperature and deep fry the tofu balls.
Drain on paper towel and serve with the sauce drizzled over the top.
Variation – You can add chopped basil, parsley, or chives to the mixture.  Use barley, chickpeas or rice miso instead of a light miso for a different taste.
Preparation
This sweet take on veggie burgers is sure to impress your family and friends. Makes 4 Burgers or 8 mini Patties!
First, roast two large or three medium sized sweet potatoes (poked several times with a fork) in a 375 degree oven for about 45 – 60 minutes. They’ll be very soft and fork tender when they’re done. You may not need to use ALL of the cooked sweet potato.
Next, combine the water and ground flaxseed in a small bowl and then set it aside for now.
In a medium-sized bowl, place your garbanzo beans and mash them up with a potato masher or large fork, leaving some beans partially intact.
To the same bowl, add your cooked sweet potato, dry oats, 2 tablespoons of breadcrumbs, onion, spices and salt. Finally, add the flaxseed/water mixture and then stir it all together.
Form this mixture into four equal-sized patties. Then, coat each side with breadcrumbs and put them in a lightly oiled pan over medium-high heat.
While those patties are cooking, prep your Maple Dijon Sauce by combining the maple syrup and mustard in a small bowl.
After approximately 5 – 7 minutes, flip the burgers.
While you’re waiting for the second side to cook, prep your other toppings. I like to use lettuce, tomato and sometimes a bit of sliced avocado!
Once those burgers form a nice crispy brown surface on each side, remove them from the pan and sprinkle them with a small pinch of salt and pepper.
If you’re like me and love a toasted bun, now would be the time to place those buns in the hot pan to lightly toast on each side.
The last step? Place those burgers on your buns, drizzle with plenty of Maple Dijon Sauce, load up your toppings, and enjoy!
This recipe can also be used to make a killer appetizer or side dish! Just form the mixture into small cakes instead of patties.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C.
Mix all the dry ingredients.
Beat the wet ingredients and mix with the dry ones until you have a lumpy mass.
Add the blueberries.
Ladle in the muffin tins (+/- 10 pieces) and bake for 25 minutes.
Preparation
To get the best taste from tofu I dry-fry it and then marinate it for a few hours, or overnight in the fridge.
To dry-fry simply press excess water out with paper-towel, slice the tofu and place in a dry-frying pan at a low heat and press with a spatula.  You will hear a hissing sound as the excess water is removed.  Turnover and do the other side. To marinade I use 1 Tbsp of each – freshly squeezed ginger juice, shoyu and mirin – you can add ¼ tsp turmeric, sweet paprika, garlic powder or whatever taste excites you.
Method
Press the tofu in paper towels to absorb any excess water.
Whisk the soya sauce, miso paste, ginger juice and vinegar in a cup and set aside.
Heat the toasted sesame oil in a wok over medium heat and add the garlic, onion and the mushrooms stir well and cook for 5 minutes.
Add the diced tofu and cook on a high heat for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add the kale stir and cover for 5 minutes or until it turns bright green adding a little water if necessary.
Add the broccoli cover for 3 or 4 minutes, if the pan seems dry add a splash more water.
Remove from the heat. Stir in the dressing.
Serve in bowls and sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds.
Method
Soak the Kombu and dried mushrooms in 6 cups of filtered water for 30 minutes.
Remove the mushrooms, dice them (discarding the stem as it can be bitter tasting) and place back in the pot.
Bring the stock to a boil then lower heat and simmer for 10 minutes (This stock is called DASHI in Japan and is the base for many noodle dishes, stews, sauces as well as soups.)
Soak the wakame for 10 minutes and then cut into small pieces with kitchen scissors.
Add the wakame and the soaking water to the pot, along with the vegetables and simmer for 20 minutes.
Whisk miso with a little of the broth and then add to the soup and switch off the heat.
Do not allow the miso to boil or it will destroy the enzymes.
Serve hot with finely chopped spring onions to garnish.  You can add cubed tofu or soba noodles to make the soup more of a meal.
Variations: You may add some diced garlic or ginger juice (squeezed from grated ginger) to your miso soup for a different taste. Add any leftover cooked grains such as millet, short grain brown rice or quinoa to your soup and make it more of a lunch or meal. You can place a small piece of lemon in the bottom of each bowl and then pour in the soup.  This aids in liver cleansing and adds vitamin C.
Preparation
Trim the leafy tops from the carrots and then make the crust. Mix the salt and flour together in a bowl, add the rosemary and oil and stir in the water. Knead by hand or in a standing mixer for a couple of minutes to obtain smooth dough. Let it rest for 15 minutes. Preheat the oven to 160C
Roll out the dough on a lightly floured surface to a thickness of about 1cm. Cut rectangles large enough to wrap the dough individually around each vegetable and press the edges together to seal.
Put the dough-wrapped carrots on an oven tray lined with baking paper and bake for 45 minutes until the dough is hard and the veg inside are tender (test with a skewer).
Once the carrots are cooked, slice open the salt crust and leave until cool enough to handle. Discard the crust and use a cloth to rub the skin from the carrots.
For the bases, take one cooked carrot and slice it lengthways into 4 strips about 1/2cm thick, saving any offcuts. Lay each strip slightly off centre of 4 serving plates.
Take the offcuts and the just one of the carrots and blend to a smooth pesto in a food processor with a big teaspoon of coconut yoghurt, the smoked almonds and the olive oil. Add a spoonful of water if the mixture is too thick. Place in a piping bag. Pipe a line of carrot pesto along each carrot strip on the plates.
Slice the remaining carrots into accurate discs 1 cm thick plus a few thinner ones. Stand the discs in descending size order along the strips in the shape of a carrot.
Spoon a little yoghurt and harissa alongside for dipping and finish the plate with the herbs or flowers that you have found or foraged.
Preparation
Low in fat and carbs, with protein and fibre.
Method
Simply whizz in a blender and serve immediately.
Preparation
You will need:
An oven proof dish approx 21 x 15cm (6cm deep) or 8½ x 6 inches (2½in deep).
The cashew sauce is made by first soaking the cashews for up to an hour to make them soft enough to blend.
Method
Place the cashews into a mug or jug along with the juiced lemon, salt, pepper and parsley.
Allow the cashews to soak in the lemon juice for up to an hour and then blend with a blender to create a thick creamy sauce. If the sauce is too thick then add a dash of water to achieve your desired sauce-like consistency.
Roughly chop red onion and mushrooms.
Crush or finely chop garlic and saute in a medium sized pan with onion and mushrooms (with a splash of olive oil) for a couple of minutes to bring out their flavour.
Add the lentils and water to the pan and bring to the boil.
In the meantime add allspice, cinnamon, cardamon, sea salt, coconut sugar and passata to the pan, stirring to mix everything together.
Once the pan has come to the boil turn down to a low/medium heat, placing the lid on. Stir regularly over a period of about 45 minutes or until all water has absorbed and the mixture resembles a thick sauce. If you are busy and want to come back to this later, then simply cook for about 30 minutes, turn off and leave it to finish cooking with the lid on, in its own heat.
Whilst the lentil part is cooking in the pan, cook the pasta, drain it and put to the side.
Slice apple into thin slices and roughly chop parsley. When the lentil part has cooked, add the parsley to the pan and mix in.
Spoon about half of this lentil mixture into an oven proof dish and add a layer of your cooked rice pasta (this should be about ½ of your pasta). Make up another layer on top of the pasta with your apple slices.
Spoon the rest of your lentil mixture on top of your apple layer and then add another layer with the rest of the pasta.
Spoon/pour on your cashew sauce on top of the final layer of pasta. If the cashew sauce seems too thick, then add a little water to loosen it up.
Your layers might resemble something like this:
(base) lentil – pasta – apple – lentil – pasta – cashew sauce (topping)
But remember there is no right or wrong. If your creativity is inspired, then let it flow!
Place your whole dish in the oven at gas mark 6 (200˚C/400˚F) for approximately 40 minutes and then serve hot with veggies or salad.
Method
Toast the nori is a dry frying pan on a high heat until it starts to blacken and crumple. Put the nori into the chopper attachment of a hand blender or a food processor. Grind until it is small flakes, put into a large bowl.
Add the jackfruit to the blender or food processor and mix until it is flakes but not so much that it becomes mush, put this into the large bowl.
Heat a little oil, fry the leeks on a low heat until soft. Add the leeks, chickpeas, salt, blend untill smooth, add to the large bowl and mix everything well. Roll out between 2 sheets of greaseproof paper, cut into 10 slices
Pour the breadcrumbs onto a plate, take one slice of the mixture, squeeze between your hands (this will hold them together more when cooking), roll in the breadcrumbs. Do this with all of the mixture
Pour a thin layer of oil into a frying pan, heat till very hot, fry the ‘fish’fingers on each side till browned and crispy
Drain on kitchen roll to get rid of any excess oil.
Serve with avocado, tomato salad or an aioli dip.
Preparation
Preheat grill to high. Large saucepan of salted water on a high heat. Medium saucepan on a medium-high heat. Power blender. Large ovenproof frying pan. Microplane or fine grater. Whisk.
Cook the mac: Bring the pan of salted water to the boil. Add the macaroni and cook for 1 minute less than stated on the packet instructions. Drain
Meanwhile, make the nut milk mixture: Put the almond milk and cashews into the medium saucepan and bring to the boil. Allow to cool. Transfer the mixture to the power blender and blitz until smooth 
Make the sauce: Put the frying pan over a medium heat and add the olive oil.  Peel the garlic and grate it straight into the pan. Cook for a couple of minutes until just starting to brown. Add the flour to the pan and whisk until it combines with the garlicky oil to make a paste.  Cook for 1 minute. Reduce the heat to low. Slowly pour in a little of the nut milk mixture and whisk until completely combined. Keep adding more, little by little, whisking until all the nut milk is incorporated. Cook for 2 minutes. Grate the dairy-free cheese. Add the nutritional yeast, mustard and cheese to the pan. Stir to mix, adding a splash more almond milk if the mixture is too thick. Taste and season generously with salt and pepper. Drain the cooked macaroni. Take the pan of sauce off the heat and tip in the drained pasta. Stir to coat the pasta in the sauce.
Make the topping:  Put the breadcrumbs, olive oil and a big pinch of salt and pepper into a bowl and stir to mix. Scatter the crumbs over the pasta
Finish: Place the pan under the grill and cook for 2-3 minutes, keeping a close eye on it, until the topping is crispy. Serve. 
Preparation
Dice the onion and carrot
Mince the garlic
Measure out the pasta and set to one side
Prepare a large pan of water with a dash of olive oil and salt ready for the pasta
Prepare a separate pan for the bolognese with a dash of oil and place on a medium heat
Method
Sweat off the chopped onion and carrot in the oil until they begin to soften
Add the garlic and stir well
Add the herbs
Add the mince, mix well ensuring the mince is completely coated with the herbs and evenly mixed with the other ingredients
Once the mince is warm, add the wine, bring to the boil then simmer
Add the tin of tomatoes and stir well
Fill the tomato tin with water and add to the mixture before bringing to the boil
Leave to simmer on a low heat for 20 minutes, stirring regularly to ensure it does not stick to the pan
Taste to check the carrot is cooked through, if not keep on the low heat for another 10 minutes
If needs be, add more water to ensure the mixture doesn’t dry out
Add salt and pepper to your taste
Once the bolognese is almost cooked, bring the pasta water pan to the boil, and add the spaghetti
Cook the spaghetti for 11-12 minutes, until al dente
Once the spaghetti is cooked, drain and add to the bolognese and mix well
Serve with a sprinkling of basil if you like
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
No instructions necessary 🙂
Preparation
If you make the pureed sweet potato in advance then it will take hardly anytime at all to bake.
Makes 1 loaf and Serves 8
Method
Preheat the oven to 200c and lightly grease a baking tray.
Peel the sweet potato and cut into 2cm chunks.  Bring a saucepan of salted water to the boil, add in the sweet potato and boil gently for 10 minutes or until the sweet potato is very tender to a knife point – you want them almost on the point of collapse as this will help when pureeing them.  Remove from the heat and drain, place in a food processor and blitz until completely smooth.
Place the flour, baking powder and salt into a large mixing bowl and whisk together until combined.  Add the sweet potato puree, water and olive oil and mix together until combined and pulling into a ball of dough.  Use your hands to pull the dough together and knead very lightly for a minute or two just to smooth out the dough and help bring it together.
Shape the dough into a circle around 6 inches in diameter, smoothing the edges and the top with your hands.  Place on the baking sheet and then use a sharp knife to cut two crosses into the top of the loaf, about ½ cm deep, so that the loaf is already marked into 8 wedges before it goes into the oven.
Bake in the oven for 35 – 40 minutes until golden and crisp.  Serve while warm.
Preparation
Rinse quinoa thoroughly a using an extra fine sieve. This removes any of the natural soapy, saponins that sometimes coat quinoa.
Chop dates into small pieces and then add all ingredients to a pan (leaving out the cinnamon or berries, which will be added once served).
Bring pan to the boil and simmer on a low heat for 25 minutes (or until the quinoa has absorbed all of the liquid). Stir once in a while with a wooden spoon. The dates should slowly fall apart melting into the pan to create a delicious sweetness. If the dates are particularly tough, then encourage the breaking down process by pressing them down with your spoon.
Once cooked enjoy your quinoa bowl served hot or cold, adding a sprinkle of cinnamon and/or a small handful of fresh berries.
Method
1. In a small bowl, whisk together the raw cacao, coconut sugar and boiling water.
2. Add ice to two tall glasses.
3. Once smooth, pour cacao mixture over top of the ice.
4. Next, pour in Oat Barista Blend and stir.
Method
To make the sauce, combine all the ingredients in a bowl and set aside.
For the dumpling filling, heat 1 tbsp of the vegetable oil in a pan, then add the onion, garlic, ginger and chilli and sauté for about 4 minutes until cooked through. Add the carrot, spring onions and mushrooms, then crumble the tofu into the pan. Cook the mixture for 10–15 minutes until it’s quite dry, then season with the soy sauce and toasted sesame oil. Leave until cool enough to handle.
Take a dumpling skin in one hand, then dip the index finger of your other hand in a little water and use it to wet the top half of the skin. Put about ½ tbsp of the filling mixture into the middle of the skin, then fold the skin over to form a half-moon shape, crimping and sticking the edges together as you go. Repeat with the remaining skins and filling.
In a large frying pan with a lid, heat the remaining vegetable oil over a high heat. Add the dumplings to the pan and fry, uncovered, for about 4 minutes until the bottoms are golden and crisp.
Add a ladleful of water and quickly put the lid on the frying pan to steam the dumplings for 2 minutes. Remove the lid and continue to fry, uncovered, until any leftover water has evaporated – be careful as the hot liquid can splash. Keep an eye on the bottom of the dumplings at this stage as you don’t want them to burn. Gently lift the dumplings with a spatula and transfer them to a serving plate and serve immediately with the dipping sauce.
Method
Heat a splash of light olive oil in a wok over medium heat.
Add the onion, stir until translucent.
Add the garlic and cook for a minute.
Add the remaining vegetables.
Season with sea salt, pepper, and herbs then add the balsamic vinegar.
Stir fry until tender.
Eat!
Preparation
Chop up all the fruit, and start layering it in a tall glass.
Start with the strawberries, then yogurt followed by a drizzle of brown rice syrup.
Next up is puffed quinoa and kiwi followed by another layer of yogurt and drizzle of brown rice syrup.
Finish with the oats and raspberries on the top.
Let it set in the fridge for an hour.
Preparation
Homemade veggie burgers can be a challenge to some! Vegetable patties can be cooked by baking, frying, or grilling. For this recipe, I formed the patties the night before and then froze them in order to make them grillable. This actually worked really well. Note, however, that I grilled them in a grill pan, not on an outdoor grill. Your results may vary.
Method
To make the patties, combine one half of the beans and one half of the rice in a food processor. Add the oil and salsa and process until mostly smooth. Combine with the remaining ingredients in a large bowl and mix well. Form into 8 patties with your hands. I roughly measured them as 1/3 cup of patty mix each. Wrap in waxed paper or parchment paper and let freeze in a container or on a flat surface in a plastic bag.
To make the bitty burger buns, combine the warm water, agave, and yeast and whisk until combined, just a few seconds. Let stand 10 minutes until proofed. Combine with the remaining ingredients and mix until dough forms. Knead until smooth. Add more flour if too sticky. I added an additional two tablespoons. I also used my standing mixer for this, using the dough hook of course. I let the machine knead the dough for 3-4 minutes. If kneading by hand you may be looking at 5-7 minutes instead. Roll to a 1/2 inch thickness, then cut with a biscuit cutter into 12-16 rounds.
Sprinkle cornmeal on a couple of cookie sheets. Place the buns on the cookie sheets. Cover with a towel and let rise in a warm place for one hour. Bake at 375 degrees for 10-12 minutes, until browned on top.
When ready for the burgers, lightly oil a non-stick grill pan. Preheat over medium high heat. Cook each patty for 5-7 minutes, pushing down with a spatula occasionally for nice grill marks. Gently flip and cook for the same amount of time on the other side.
You don’t have to make all of the patties at once. Just keep them in the refrigerator until you’re ready for another!
Garnish with lettuce, tomato, onion, avocado, pickles, you name it.
Makes 8 patties, 12-16 buns.
Method
Wash the cucumbers with salt to cleanse thoroughly. Soak the prepared cucumbers in boiling salted water.
Meanwhile, finely shred ½ of the pear(s) and the radishes. Add 1 Tbsp soy sauce and 1 Tbsp plum extract to the prepared pear and radishes, and mix well with your hands.
Grate the remainder of the pears and sieve or strain to collect juice. Add the purified water, 2 Tbsp soy sauce, 2 Tbsp plum extract and a pinch of salt to the juice.
Cut the cucumber into 3cm cylindrical pieces and make cross-cuts on the circular face of each piece. Stuff the cucumbers with the radish and pear mixture and transfer to a plate. To finish, pour the pear juice mixture over the cucumber pieces.
Method
To make the dipping sauce place the orange juice in a pan on a low heat for 7-8 minutes so it reduces by around two thirds. Take of the heat and mix with the soy sauce. Place in a small bowl and set aside to cool.
Take the cucumber and slice into thin strips using a julienne peeler or sharp knife. Only cut the outer flesh of the cucumber discarding the more watery core.
Halve and peel the avocado, remove the stone and slice lengthways in half inch slices. Slice the radishes lengthways.
Fill a bowl with slightly warm water. The diameter of the bowl needs to be wider than the rice paper so that the rice paper can be fully immersed in the water.
Dunk one rice paper in the bowl of water for 5 seconds. Give it a shake to get rid of excess water and lay on a clean chopping board.
Near one of the edges of the paper place a handful or two of the watercress tearing any larger clumps into smaller sections as the rolls are meant to be eaten by hand.
Next, place two or three slices of the avocado on top of the watercress. Then, take a few sprigs of dill and, using a pair of scissors, chop finely over the avocado and watercress and season with salt and pepper.
Fold the near edge the wrapper over the contents, then fold both sides into the middle and roll up.
Serve with the dipping sauce.
Method
Put everything in the food processor and mix well.
That’s it!
Method
Preheat the oven to 180C.
Line an 11×7″ flapjack tin with baking parchment and set aside.
Place the margarine, sugar and cardamom in a small non-stick pan over a low heat, until the margarine has melted and the sugar has dissolved.
Meanwhile, in a large mixing bowl combine the flour and oats.
When the margarine mixture is ready pour into the flour and oats and mix well. The mixture will look like rough bread crumbs rather than a dough so don’t panic if it feel a little dry.
Spoon half the mix into the prepared tin and press down well to form the base of the slice. Next spread the mincemeat over in an even layer. Sprinkle over the remaining flour mixture and place into the oven.
Bake for 20-25 minutes until the top is lightly golden. Remove from the oven and cool.
Cut into pieces and enjoy. Best served with a spoon of vanilla soya yogurt and a cup of Earl Grey.
Quick dull health and safety note: The mincemeat achieves a temperature close to lava so don’t give in to temptation and try and sample too soon!! Let it cool for a good ten minutes at least.
Method
Heat the oil in a pan and add the onion
As soon as the onions begin to soften, add the chillies and mix well
Add the garlic and ginger
As soon as the garlic and ginger start to cook, add the powdered spices (and lemon juice if using) & mix well
Add the chickpeas and stir into the spices
Add the chopped tomatoes, fill the can with water and add to the pan
Bring to the boil then turn down to simmer
Keep stirring occasionally until cooked
Season as required
Serve with rice
Follow this link for more mouth-watering vegan curry recipes!
And if you like our recipes and want to try more, sign up to try Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Method
Saute onion, garlic, spring onions and pepper in olive oil (or water).
Add remaining vegetables and seasonings.
When well mixed, add quinoa.
Ensure flavourings are well distributed.
Enjoy!
Want more recipes? Sign up to Veganuary for delicious recipes, meal plans, cookbooks, nutritional advice and more – all for free!
Method
What’s on the plate?
Black Rice – I’ve been obsessed with this ever since I was introduced to it by Jane, and I love the fact that it has bite and is really easy to cook. 1 part rice to 2 parts water, bring to boil, turn down and simmer for 40 minutes. Works perfectly every time. I buy the Biona black rice, but you should be able to find it in most supermarkets.
Refried Beans – I’ve been a refried bean fan ever since I was a kid. Great in nachos as well, but lovely here because of their creamy flavour. You buy it in cans, and you’ll find them in the Mexican section.
Guacamole – I always make my own, as it is so much tastier, really easy and doesn’t have any sour cream sneaked in (many store-made guacs do, so always check the label before you buy). My ‘go-to’ recipe is this:
Mash up 2 ripe avocados with a fork
Finely dice some red onion (about half a small one) and a stalk of spring onion – add to bowl
Finely dice one red chilli (up to you if you keep the seeds or not!) – add to bowl
Chop up about 6-8 cherry tomatoes into little pieces (in half and then in half again at least) – add to bowl
Squeeze in the juice of about half a lemon – do this to taste. You can always add more lemon, so start off with a little first
Salt and cracked pepper
If you don’t have any fresh chilli then you can use a hot sauce, like Tabasco, instead. And if you’re not keen on heat, then just leave the chilli out altogether.
Chilli Non Carne – Full recipe here
Method
Bring a pot of water to the boil and cook cauliflower until tender. 5-7 minutes – remove from the heat and drain in a colander.
Place water, cashews, nutritional yeast, mustard, tahini and vinegar in the food processer and blend until smooth.
Add cauliflower to food processor and blend to a cream.
Place in a bowl and serve garnished with some alfalfa and sesame seeds.
Method
Stir until the sugar is dissolved.
Pour into small jugs and store in the fridge.
Or if desperate drink straight away, without hesitation!
(We recommend no more than 2 of these a day. However, we are all human, so sometimes desperate situations call for desperate measures!)
Preparation
Saute the vegetables and add the seasoning after a few minutes.
Pour in the tinned tomatoes, tomato paste and simmer for a few minutes.
Add in the meatless mince and simmer for a further 10 minutes.
Blend all the cheese ingredients to make the white sauce.
Once all cooked, layer half of the mince mixture onto an oven proof dish and then layer ½ of the cheese sauce before adding 3 lasagne sheets on top.
Repeat the layer and top with the remaining white sauce.
Cover loosely with foil and bake for around 20 minutes at 180 degrees.
Serve with some green beans or whatever vegetables you like!
Created by @FEEDMEGLOW (www.instagram.com/feedmeglow)
Makes 3-4 portions
Method
1. Heat your olive oil in a large, non-stick casserole pan over a medium heat. Whilst heating, season each of your Meatless Farm chicken breasts all over with a pinch of salt and pepper.
2. Once the oil is hot, add your seasoned Meatless Farm chicken breasts and cook for 3 mins on each side until golden (ensure that you move about to stop any sticking to the pan).
3. Remove your ”chicken” from the pan and set to one side. Using the same pan, now add your shallots, carrot, celery, rosemary and bay leaves and cook for a five mins, continuously stirring until softened. Add your garlic and cook for a further min until fragrant.
4. Add the peppers, olives, crumbled stock cube, balsamic and water and simmer over a medium-high heat for 5 mins until the liquid has halved.
5. Add the chopped tomatoes and simmer for a further 10 mins before adding your Meatless Farm chicken and cooking over a low-medium heat for a further 5 mins.
6. Leave in the pan, sprinkle with parsley and sundried tomatoes and place in the centre of the table with some torn, crusty bread for the ultimate, one-pot family warmer.
Method
Heat your oven to 190c/375f/GM5.
Heat the oil in a large frying pan. Once the oil is hot add the onion and carrot. Fry for 10-15 minutes until the onion is translucent.
Add the garlic and mushrooms. Fry for another 5-10 minutes until the mushroom has browned.
Blend the mixture from the pan with the chickpeas, walnuts, chestnuts, salt, pepper, spices, aquafaba and psyllium husk.
Add a small amount of oil to a muffin tin. Divide the muffin batter between all the holes. Bake for 35-45 minutes until browned and cooked through.
TIPS
If you want a herby stuffing simply omit the spices and replace with fresh sage leaves, thyme or rosemary.
The psyllium husk acts as a binder in this recipe but also adds moisture. You can omit it but the muffins will be a little crumbly.
Preparation
4 springform pie tins approx. 11cm in diameter
Method
Heat the coconut oil in a large pan on a medium heat. While the pan heats up, peel and discard the skin of the onion, slice it thinly and add it to the pan. Fry for 10 minutes, stirring frequently until it begins to caramelise.
Meanwhile, peel and finely dice the ginger and garlic. Then peel and dice the butternut squash and potatoes. Quarter the cherry tomatoes and finely chop the stalks of the coriander, saving the leaves for later. Add the ginger, garlic, squash, potatoes, tomatoes and coriander stalks to the pan and fry for a further 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add the frozen peas, spinach leaves and Rogan Josh Curry Sauce to the frying pan and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Next, roughly chop the coriander leaves and stir them into the pan along with the juice from the half of lime and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Preheat the oven to 200°C fan.
Meanwhile, roll out the pastry on a floured surface until it’s a few millimetres thick. Use a sharp knife to cut 4 circles a few cms wider than the pie tins (make sure you leave enough pastry for the tops), then line the pie tins with the pastry by pressing the pastry into the base and sides to ensure the inside of the tin is fully covered.
Sprinkle a tsp of flour over the base to stop it from going soggy, then fill each pie with the curry filling.
Use the remaining pastry to cover each pie and pinch the top and sides of the pastry together to close the pie.
Brush the tops with plant milk and bake in the oven for 20-25 minutes, until golden brown.
Serve with chips and mushy peas. Enjoy!
If you’ve been inspired by this recipe, check out this Lentil and Mushroom pie!
Preparation
Soak the nuts overnight.
Method
Blend all ingredients.
To strain, put a square of muslin in a colander over a big bowl.
Pour, let it drain a bit and squeeze out the excess water from the muslin.
You can also drink it without straining if you don’t mind a thicker milk.
Preparation
Serves 20
Method
Preheat the oven to 170c. And line a baking tin with greaseproof paper.
Mix together the ground almonds, baking powder and salt in a large bowl. Then add the vegan spread, sweetener and almond extract and mix again until well combined.
Stir in the Nākd Berry Delight chips until evenly incorporated into the mixture.
Transfer the mixture between two sheets of clingfilm wrap and leave in the fridge for approximately 30 minutes, to firm up. Once firm, roll the dough out to about 1cm thickness and cut out your cookie shapes.
Bake the cookies for 8-10 minutes, keeping a close eye on the oven and rotating the baking sheet a couple of times to prevent it from browning too much. Leave to cool before enjoying!
Preparation
For the rice:
Combine jasmine rice, coconut milk, salt and sugar or agave, mix well and place in rice cooker or stove top and simmer for 15-20 minutes.
For the stir fry:
Sauté frozen mandarin chick’n with oil in a non-stick frying pan over medium heat until browned and crisp on all sides (7 minutes).
Add diced bok choy to the pan and sauté 1 minute until wilted. Add thawed sauce and stir for 30 seconds until sauce is thick and sticky.
Divide rice between bowls and top with chick’n and bok choy mixture. Garnish with green onion and black sesame seeds.
Preparation
Serves 6.
Preheat the oven to 200C.
Method
Mix the tofu layer ingredients together thoroughly.
Grease a large oven-proof dish with a thin coating of the melted dairy-free margarine. Add the first sheet of filo pastry, followed by a coat of margarine. Repeat with three more filo sheets.
Cover the filo pastry evenly with half of the spinach, followed by half of the tofu mix.
Repeat steps 3 and 4 to add the next layer. Add a final layer of filo sheets, being sure to coat the top layer with plenty of the melted dairy-free margarine.
Bake in the oven for around 45 minutes or until the pastry has turned golden brown.
Method
In a high speed blender whiz everything but the berries (for the base) together until a light crumb forms then add the raspberries to form a dough.
Press into a round tin – about 2 inches thick and leave in the fridge to set.
Whiz all the topping ingredients together then add to the set base.
For the chocolate drizzle, melt the cacao then sift in cocoa and stir in agave, and drizzle on top.
We like to decorate our cakes with dried flowers, fresh fruit or extra seeds – be creative!
This cake is ready straight away so dig in! It keeps for about 1 week.
Preparation
makes 12 small cookies – Oven 150c.
Method
 Put all of the ingredients, apart from the chocolate, into a food processor. Whizz up until the mixture starts to come together, then empty out into a bowl.
Add the roughly chopped chocolate into the crumbed mixture and bring together with your hands until it forms a ball.
Divide the cookie dough into twelve evenly sized balls and place onto a baking tray. Using the palm of your hand squash the cookie balls down to make a flat round cookie shape.
Bake in the oven for 10-15 minutes, depending on how hot your oven is.
Method
1. Stir the rolled oats, oat milk and maple syrup together in a bowl.
2. With two short glasses or one small jar, start building your breakfast.
3. Start by spreading some peanut butter against the inside of the jar or glass, then spoon in the oat mixture.
4. Spoon in some raspberry jam and sprinkle in some frozen raspberries, pumpkin seeds and some of the Nutmilk or 70% Dark chocolate flakes from your single-serve.
5. Keep layering the oat mixture, jam, raspberries, pumpkin seeds and chocolate flakes until the jar or glass is full, or you feel like there’s enough for your breakfast.
6. Finish your breakfast pot with a layer of raspberries, pumpkin seeds, and chocolate flakes on top.
Method
Set your oven to 200c.
Drain and rinse the beans very well, put them into a large bowl.
Add the stock powder, garlic, red onion, flax, rice, sesame seeds, spices, herbs, yeast extract and a little salt.
Using a hand blender or food processor blend until smooth.
You can make the patties one of two ways, shape them with your hands or roll out between 2 sheets of baking paper and cut out shapes with a glass.
Bake in the oven for around 30 minutes.
Remove the stems from the mushrooms carefully, so the caps don’t break.
Put the mushrooms in a large bowl with the tamari, water and paprika. Turn the mushrooms over and around so that they are covered with the sauce.
Bake the mushrooms in the oven for 15 minutes.
Slice the tomatoes, put the spinach on your plate, assemble the burgers with the tomatoes and enjoy!!!!
Method
Heat a little oil in a large skillet. bring a large pan of water to boil, add the vegetable stock and reduce to barely a simmer.
Finely chop the onion and add to the skillet, along with a little salt and pepper. sweat until soft. dice the courgette and add to pan and cook until just beginning to soften. mince the garlic cloves and add to pan, season and sweat for several minutes until the garlic begins to exude an aroma.
Stir in the risotto rice and let it absorb the flavours for a minute or two before ladelling in the stock, just covering the rice. simmer gently until the stock is completely absorbed before ladelling in more, stirring frequently. you may not need to use the full litre so remember to taste your rice once it begins to look plump – it should be al dente in texture.
Roughly chop the sundried tomatoes and add to the pan along with the chilli flakes. pour in the soya cream and stir through. check for seasoning and allow the cream to heat through before serving.
For the asparpagus spear simply coat them in extra virgin olive oil and seasoning. griddle for around 10mins on a heated griddle pan. serve on top of the risotto before finishing with a final drizzle of evoo and a smidge more sea salt.
Method
Squeeze excess water out of the tofu.
Crumble the tofu into small-medium sized pieces. Set aside.
Heat oil in a pan over medium heat.
Add in cumin seeds, fennel seeds and mix.
Mix in chopped onions and green chillies and sauté onions until translucent.
Add grated garlic and grated ginger and cook for 2 minutes or until the raw smell disappears.
Add chopped bell pepper and chopped tomato and cook for another 1-2 minutes.
Add in ground cumin, ground coriander, ground turmeric, pink salt, Kashmiri chilli powder and cook for 2-3 minutes.
Add in crumbled tofu, mix well and cook for another 2 minutes.
Mix in ground cinnamon.
Squeeze juice lemon and add chopped coriander.
Take off heat and serve with chapati / naan.
Method
Make up the coffee and set to one side to cool.
Pre-heat the oven to 170C/160C Fan/325F/Gas3.
Cream the spread and sugar.
Add all of the remaining ingredients (reserving 25g/1oz of the nuts) and mix until just combined.
Divide the mixture between 2 greased and lined 7″ sandwich tins.
Bake for 20-25 mins until the cakes are firm and spring back slightly if pressed gently in the centre.
Turn out onto a wire rack and remove the greaseproof paper.
Allow to cool before icing.
Soften the spread in a bowl and stir in the icing sugar.
Mix together, adding just enough of the coffee to make a thick, spreadable icing.
Spread in the middle and on top of the cake.
Decorate the top of the cake with the remaining nuts.
Suitable for freezing.
Love this recipe? Want more like this? Sign up to Veganuary for delicious recipes, our celebrity meal plans, nutritional advice and so much more. The best part is it’s 100% free!
*I made this cake as an experiment, to try out the tub of xanthan gum I had recently bought. Xanthan gum is a binder and emulsifier which is often used in gluten-free baking – it can be found in the baking or free-from section of most big supermarkets.
Method
Wash the figs and remove the stems.
Now, add all ingredients to your blender and blend until smooth.
Enjoy!
Method
Fry the onion and garlic, herbs and seasoning in some oil until a little soft.
Add the mushrooms and “meat” strips and fry until the strips start to look browned
Add the ale and sprinkle in the gravy granules, a tablespoon at a time until it starts to thicken. Make sure the gravy isn’t watery, as it will make the pastry really soggy. It just needs to cover the ingredients in the pan.
Roll out the pastry, line a roasting dish with it and place the pie filling in the dish. Place the pastry on the top and squash the edges of the bottom layer and the top of the pie together with a fork. If you want less pastry, you can leave off the bottom layer and just have the top. Don’t worry if it looks a mess, when the pastry puffs up, it will look fab! And if the gravy overflows and runs out, even better!
Cook at 200 degrees for about half an hour, or until the pastry looks nice and brown.
If you’ve been inspired by this recipe, why not sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Defrost 1 pack of Fry’s Meat-Free Crispy ‘Prawns’
Method
Place ‘prawns’ on a non-stick baking tray and place in a preheated oven at 180°C for 6 – 8 minutes.
Cook noodles in salted water drain under colder water and set aside.
Heat up frying pan or wok until very hot.
Add peanut oil, crushed garlic and fry for a few seconds (do not burn).
Toss in carrots, onion, cabbage, red pepper and snow peas and stir fry for 3 – 4 minutes.
Mix in the prepared ‘prawns’.
Combine soy sauce, brown sugar and white wine vinegar in a small bowl. mix until the sugar has dissolved.
Add the cooked noodles and the soy mixture and stir fry for 1 minute.
Add roasted peanuts and garnish with chopped shallots.
Did you like this dish? Check out more vegan seafood recipes.
Method
Bhaji battered jerk mini fillet
1. Mix dry spices and seeds with gram flour.
2. Peel and thinly slice onion.
3. Mix dry mix with enough water to bind to a thin batter.
4. Add the onion and mix through.
5. Slice Quorn Jerk Mini Fillets
6. Toss Quorn Jerk Mini Fillets in batter until well coated – fry @ 180c until crispy and hot through. Drain and season with salt.
Yoghurt flatbread
1. Mix together until a smooth dough forms.
2. Divide into portions.
3. Flour lightly and roll out to desired thickness – 1cm
4. Cook over dry heat in a griddle pan on both sides – until bar marked, puffed and cooked through.
5. Keep warm until used.
Mint yoghurt 
1. Finely chop the mint & zest the lime.
2. Mix with the yoghurt.
Mango/habanero salsa
1. Peel and finely dice the mango
2. Finely dice the chilli
3. Fry off the mango/ chilli in the vegetable oil over medium low heat for 5-6 minutes until they begin to soften
4. Add the vinegar and sugar to the pan
5. Bring to a boil – then turn down to a simmer and leave for 20 minutes.
6. Allow to cool slightly and then blend until smooth – mix in the chopped coriander and thin down if necessary to be able to drizzle.
Charred pineapple 
1. Remove the outer skin from the pineapple and remove the core.
2. Slice into wedges.
3. Char on both sides in a hot griddle pan until well-marked.
Method
Heat your oven to 180c/360f/GM4.
Cut the top off each apple. If they will not sit upright, cut a small amount off the bottom of each apple.
Using a spoon dig out the flesh of the apples, creating ‘bowls’ from the apples.
Bake for 15-20 minutes until the apples are cooked through. Do not overcook the apples as this will cause them to fall apart.
Finely chop the apples, removing any seeds or stems.
Put the apple in a saucepan with the rice, coconut milk, sugar, milk, fruit, zest, vanilla essence and spices.
Bring to the boil then lower to a simmer. Simmer for 15-20 minutes until the rice is cooked through and the rice pudding has thickened.
Add half the chopped nuts to the rice pudding. Mix in and spoon the mixture into the 4 apple bowls.
Dip each apple in the remaining chopped nuts. Place on a serving plate with a drizzle of maple syrup.
Method
Put the lentils into a pan and cover with water. Leave for 5 minutes, then pick out any floating lentils. Drain, cover with fresh water, and add the bay leaf. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 30 minutes, stirring and checking the water level (add more if needed). The lentils should be springy, but cooked. Drain if necessary, though there should be very little liquid left.
Put the bulgur wheat into a large bowl and pour over the boiling water or stock, enough to cover it by about 2cm. Tightly cover and leave for 30 minutes. Once cooked, fluff with a fork and cool.
In a frying pan, heat the oil on a high heat, then add the cauliflower and begin to fry. Stir regularly and cook for 10–12 minutes. Once the cauliflower has softened and the edges are slightly charred, sprinkle over the ground spices and salt and cook for a further 2 minutes, stirring well. Cover and leave to cool. The cauliflower should be nicely coated with the spices. Make the pomegranate.
Dressing. Add three-quarters of the lentils to the bulgur wheat, along with the cauliflower, herbs and the rest of the ingredients, then pour over the dressing and mix gently together with your hands until well combined.
Place in a wide, shallow serving bowl and spread out evenly. Sprinkle over the remaining lentils and garnish with pomegranate seeds and herbs.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Add all the ingredients to a blender and process until smooth
Keep the remaining dressing in an airtight container. Best eaten within one week.
Method
Chocolate sponge:
Mix all the dry ingredients together well, add in the wet ingredients and mix well.
Divide the mixture between the two 8 inch round baking tins.
If you want a towering cake, double the sponge mixture recipe and divide between three baking tins.
Cook for 25 – 30 mins at 200/400 degrees or gas mark 6 and check by poking the cakes with a small knife or toothpick. If the knife or toothpick doesn’t come out clean, put back in the oven for 5 mins at a time until the poke test comes out clean.
Leave the sponges to cool when done.
Cherry filling:
Heat the sugar, cornstarch and salt in a pan.
Stir in the cherry liqueur or water.
Then add the cherries and cook until the mixture thickens. It can be a little runny as the juice can soak into the bottom sponge.
You can save the drained cherry juice and add some cherry liqueur to make some lovely sweet shots to go with the cake!
Cream filling:
Soyatoo whipping cream is available from US or UK online stores.
Just keep whipping these until they are as thick as you can get – using an electric whisk is best, otherwise you might be whisking all day!
To assemble!
Place the cherry filling over the first sponge and let the juice soak in.
If you have only one more sponge, place the cream on top of the cherries. If you have two more, place the next sponge on top of the cherries and then layer the cream on top of that.
Place the last layer of sponge on the cream.
On the top, you can go crazy with all cream, or cream around the edge of the top sponge and some cherries in the middle.
Garnish with your choice of glacé cherries, chocolate shavings or maybe chocolate chips!
Method
Heat the oven to 200 ° C and cover a baking sheet with baking paper. Spread the potatoes on the baking paper. Drizzle with olive oil and season with the spices. Cut the pepper into slices, spread them out on a 2nd baking sheet. Drizzle with olive oil and season with the fennel seeds, salt and pepper.
Put everything in the oven for 20 minutes. The peppers will be cooked before the potatoes. Cook the chorizo.
Prepare the Sensational Chorizo (or similar) based on the instructions on the pack.
Cut the tomatoes/avocado and mix them with the ingredients. Place the potatoes in a large bowl with the peppers. Cut the chorizo and mix everything.
Garnished with avocado salsa and some additional fresh herbs.
Love this recipe? When you sign up to Veganuary, you’ll get access to our cookbooks, delicious recipes, meal plans and more. (It’s free!)
Preparation
This recipe uses a whole block of tofu so makes a healthy serving of scramble. How many burritos you have will be determined by how much you pack into each, and how large your tortilla wraps are… But you should have four large burritos if you make them according to the recipe below.
Method
Rinse the tofu, wrap it in a clean tea towel, then put something heavy on top (some books, perhaps) to press the liquid from it.
Peel and finely chop the onion and garlic. Add these to a frying pan with a splash of olive oil.
Cook for a bit and then add the thyme,  paprika and turmeric. Mix and then add the soy sauce.
Add any other veg you want to include and stir.
Now, take the books off the tofu and give the tea towel another squeeze. Then with your hands, crumble the tofu into the frying pan.
Mix the tofu through, using your spoon to break up any bigger bits. It should look similar to scrambled egg now.
Once all mixed in, add nutritional yeast and mix in. I am obsessed with nutritional yeast so I always add more than 2!
Add some pepper and mix again.
Leave to cook for another 20 mins or so, turning down the heat a little to stop it sticking. Give it a stir occasionally.
After about 20 minutes you can start to prep your tortilla wraps. Spread some tomato salsa in the middle of the wrap. Add sliced avocado or a little homemade guacamole on top, and then sprinkle on some grated vegan cheese. Then pile some scramble on top of the cheese and add sliced spring onions and jalapenos on top.
Wrap up and serve with extra avocado and Frank’s hot sauce.
Preparation
Method
Place the nut milk, banana, peanut butter, ice cream, cocoa powder, maple syrup and about a third of the chocolate chips into a blender or food processor, and blitz until smooth and creamy, (this may take up to a minute).
Set aside about a tablespoon full of the remaining chocolate chips, and pour the rest into a small microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on full power for one minute until melted, and whisk with a fork until smooth.
Dip the rim of your glass into the melted chocolate, then use a teaspoon to drizzle more of the chocolate around the rim to create the trademark Freakshake dribbles around the outside.
Pour in the milkshake, then top with as much popcorn as gravity will allow, scatter carefully with the chocolate chips, and then drizzle the whole lot with even more melted chocolate.
Preparation
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Method
Drain and rinse the chickpeas and set about peeling them (I think it’s worth it, for extra crunch). Shaking them in a colander or rolling between sheets of kitchen paper seems to help loosen the skins.
Either place all of the ingredients in a bowl and mix them together until the chickpeas are nicely coated, or make a little bag with parchment paper to shake it all together (making sure you’ve gathered all the edges together!). My preferred method is to use the parchment paper, as it means you’re not left with an oily bowl to wash up.
Spread the chickpeas out on a sheet of parchment paper on a baking tray. I use the same sheet of paper from step 3. 5. Cook for 20 minutes, give them a little shake, then cook for a further 20 minutes.
Method
Makes 6 portions
Put all the ingredients (except the lemon) in a pan following the order above. Cover it and cook it at medium temperature for about 10-15 minutes.
Squeeze the lemon onto the mushrooms and serve them as a starter with some bread slices.
Thanks to Maria Aragão, author of the vegan recipes book “Omeletas sem Ovos”.
Method
Boil the pearl barley in a separate pan for approximately 30-40 minutes.
In a large stew pan, fry off the onion until lightly browned, adding in each of the seasonings.
Add the butternut squash and a touch of water to help it soften. Steam for around 10 minutes.
Add the remaining vegetables and steam for a further 5 minutes.
Add the vegetable stock and tinned tomatoes, bringing the whole mix to the boil.
Simmer for another 30 minutes, adding the chickpeas and kale after around 20 minutes.
Stir in the pearl barley and stir thoroughly.
Serve with a sprig of parsley on the top! Season to taste.
Hungry for more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary for our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, recipes and so much more. Did we tell you? It’s 100% free!
Method
Cook the quinoa as per manufacturer’s instructions. Allow to cool.
In the meantime, chop up the salad ingredients.
Make the dressing. In a small bowl, mix together the dressing ingredients.
In a large bowl, mix together the quinoa, salad dressing and the chopped up salad ingredients, reserving some parsley for the garnish.
Garnish with the remaining chopped parsley and a handful of pumpkin seeds. Enjoy!
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan salad recipes.
Preparation
*If you want to spice up the Oumph! yourself, use Oumph! The Chunk: Mix the Sriracha mayo and Japanese soy sauce with Oumph! The Chunk. Fry over medium heat in a pan with oil until golden brown, then sprinkle sesame seeds on top.
**If you’re using Bibim Oumph! and Pulled Oumph! – just follow the cooking instructions on the packaging.
Boil the rice as stated on the packaging.
If you fancy broccoli or cauliflower, cut in to small florets and steam or boil until just done. Rinse in cold water to stop them from cooking further and season with, for example, some sesame seeds and Japanese soy – or keep it au naturel! Serve lukewarm or cold.
Finely grate for example carrot or sweet potato – a small handful per portion will do.
Use bean sprouts, or any other sprouts you fancy, about 100 ml per person.
Cut the the sugar snaps in to thin pieces, or use whole, approx. 3-4 per person.
Green leaves like baby spinach are tasty and healthy, one handful will be perfect.
Use ready-made dressing or make your own.
Line the bottom of the bowl with the rice. Carefully arrange the various ingredients on top. There are no wrong ingredients in a Buddha Bowl, as long as it’s yummy and looks good! Let your creativity run wild!
Preparation
Peel and finely grate the carrots. 
Pour the Alpro Almond No Sugars drink into a saucepan, add the carrot, raisins, cinnamon and vanilla essence. 
Simmer gently on a low heat for 5-10 minutes until the carrots are tender, giving it a stir every now and then. 
Stir in the rolled oats and carry on stirring until the porridge starts to thicken up. Take off the heat and add an extra splash of almond drink if you think it needs it. 
Divide between your bowls and top with a scatter of nuts. Dig in while deliciously hot! 
Preparation
Heat oil over low-medium heat.
Add garlic and sauté for 40 seconds.
Mix in onions and sauté for a few seconds.
Add bell pepper, carrot and purple cabbage and sauté for 5-7 minutes.
Combine mashed potato and cook for 3 minutes.
Mix in chopped coriander and transfer mixture into a bowl.
Spread both sides of bread with vegan butter and in the same pan toast both sides until golden (or crispy as you like!)
Add 1/4 of the mixture on each slice of bread and top with whatever you like!
Preparation
Serves:  6
Preparation time: 15 minutes, plus 15 minutes chilling
Cooking time: 15 minutes
Method
Grease or line a muffin tin or preferably use a silicon muffin tray to make the cheesecakes easier to remove.
Chop the Nākd bars in a food processor or high powered blender into small bits and divide them into 6 sections. Press firmly into the bottom of the muffin tins or silicon trays to make 6 cheesecake bases.
Blend together the cashew nuts, agave nectar/maple syrup, coconut oil and vanilla until it makes a smooth silky mixture. Pour the mixture onto each of the cheesecake bases until it fills the top.
Make the strawberry swirl by blending together the dates and strawberries then dropping a few dots of the mixture onto the top of the cheesecakes. Use a skewer to gently swirl the strawberry mixture around.
Place the cheesecakes in the freezer overnight or for at least 4 hours to set.
Sit at room temperature before serving and enjoy!
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
No instructions necessary 🙂
Method
Line an oven proof dish with one of the pastry sheets
Boil and mash the potatoes with plenty of Flora, salt, pepper and 2 teaspoons of mustard
Chop and boil the leeks then drain, pour in the carton of cream and simmer with a couple of dessert spoons of Flora and salt and pepper
Pan fry the chicken pieces in Flora until defrosted, then stir them into the creamy leek mixture
Into the dish with the pastry pour the leek and chicken mixture, then on top put a layer of the mash
Cover with the second pastry sheet and, if you have a bit of pastry left over, get creative with a design for the top of your pie!
Brush a bit of oil over the top so it browns nicely
Bake at about 180 for 45 minutes
Preparation
1. Preheat the oven to 180C / gas mark 4 and boil a kettle. Rinse the brown rice and place into a saucepan with 400ml boiling water and a pinch of sea salt. Simmer for 20-25 mins until cooked, then drain.
2. Cut the yellow pepper and onion into bite-sized pieces. Roughly chop the kale. Finely chop the chilli (remove the seeds for less heat). Drain and rinse the tofu, pat dry with paper towel. Cut the tofu into 2cm cubes.
3. To make the sweet and sour sauce; in a small bowl mix together the tamari, tomato puree, maple syrup, apple cider vinegar and half of the chilli with 2 tbsp cold water.
4. Place the cornflour into a bowl with a pinch of sea salt. Place the tofu cubes into the bowl and coat evenly.
5. Place the kale on a baking tray with a pinch of sea salt and combine with 1 tsp oil, spread out into an even layer. Place in the oven for 10 mins until turning crispy.
6. Heat a large wok or frying pan with 2 tsp oil on a medium-high heat and cook the tofu for 10 mins, turning occasionally until turning golden. Then add the onion and pepper and cook for 5 mins until softening. Add in the sauce and turn down the heat. Cook for 1-2 mins until the sauce has thickened.
7. Spoon the brown rice into two warm bowls alongside the sweet and sour tofu and crispy kale. Sprinkle with the cashew nuts and remaining chilli (if desired).
Serves 2
Method
Discard the water from the soaking beans and add fresh filtered water. Bring water with adzuki beans and kombu to a boil over medium-high heat.
Reduce heat to medium and cook for 30-45 minutes until beans are soft.
(Discard this part of the recipe if you are using canned beans – see below.)
Add the onion and carrot and cook for a further 10 minutes. Add the squash and parsnip and cook for 15 minutes more or until soft. Stir in the ginger juice and add shoyu to taste.
If using canned beans: Place the cooked beans along with the onion and carrot and cook for 10 minutes in 2 cups of water. Add the squash, parsnip and 1 cup of water and cook for a further 10 minutes. Season the soup to taste with ginger juice and shoyu and serve with some crusty sourdough bread.
According to a recent study, regular bean eaters are 22 percent less likely to be overweight and have smaller waistlines than those who don’t eat them. Beans release energy slowly into the body, making them a great weight loss food. They are also high in protein and fibre, which satiates the appetite and helps keep you full for longer periods of time.
Preparation
Makes 1 large jar
Equipment
Food processor
Frying pan
Wooden spoon
Bowl and water for soaking the cashews
Measuring cups
Chopping board and knife
Method
Put the cashews into a bowl, cover with cold water and allow to soak for 30 mins. Remove the pepper from the jar so it’s ready to use, or roast a fresh pepper if you prefer.
Roughly chop the onion and garlic and fry gently for 5-10 mins in the oil, so they soften and turn golden. Add the turmeric and paprika after a couple of minutes of cooking.
* Time Saving Tip *
You can add the onion and garlic raw if you prefer, but I found that my loved ones weren’t shy about telling me how strongly it smelled!
Drain the cashews and add to the processor with the cooked onions, garlic, roasted pepper, water and lemon juice or vinegar. Blitz together on high-speed, stopping every so often to scrape down the sides. Keep blending until a smooth texture has formed and then get a (big) tasting spoon to try it. Add black pepper and (if needed) salt, and give it another quick whizz.
* Serving Suggestion *
You’re now ready to enjoy this creamy goodness on crackers or open sandwiches. It’s also perfect for mixing through cooked pasta and veggies, serves as a great dip alternative to hummus, plus any other tasty combinations you discover! Store in an airtight jar, and it will keep in the fridge for up to 5 days.
I’ve got loads more yummy vegan recipes on LottieLovesFood.com
Method
Preheat the oven to 425°F. Oil an 8×4-inch loaf pan.
In a medium-sized bowl, whisk together the flaxseed meal and non-dairy milk. Set aside.
In another medium-sized bowl, stir together the flour, baking powder, matcha, lemon zest, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt.
In a larger bowl, whisk together the melted coconut oil, coconut sugar, and vanilla extract. Whisk in the flax mixture. Add a third of the dry mixture at a time to the wet mixture, stirring well to combine after each addition. After all the dry ingredients are incorporated, stir in the almonds.
Scoop the batter into the oiled loaf pan, place in the oven, and immediately lower the oven temperature to 375°F. Bake for 20-30 minutes, or until a toothpick or knife inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Allow to cool in the pan for at least 20 minutes before placing on a cooling rack to cool completely.
While the cake bakes, prepare the glaze. Carefully pour only the creamy white liquid at the top of the can of coconut milk into a medium-sized bowl, taking care to get as little as possible of the clear coconut water at the bottom of the can into the bowl. Reserve the leftover coconut water for smoothies. Whisk in the arrowroot, syrup/nectar, and vanilla. Place the glaze in the refrigerator until the cake has cooled completely.
Once the cake has cooled completely, place it onto a baking sheet and spoon the coconut glaze over the top, letting the glaze drizzle down the sides of the cake. Transfer the cake to a serving plate and either serve immediately, or, for a moister texture, allow the cake to sit for a couple of hours while the glaze soaks in.
Preparation
Preheat oven to 225c/450f.
Method
Slice potatoes lengthwise into half inch thick slices.
Cut the slices into half inch thick spears just like French fries.
Toss them with a generous amount of olive oil to coat the potato pieces and sprinkle with your choice of dried herbs, i.e. rosemary/thyme.
Spread in a rimmed baking sheet, avoiding overlap and bake, uncovered for about 20-25 minutes, until browned and crisp, stirring occasionally to ensure even browning.
Remove from oven and toss with a light seasoning of sea salt.
Tofu Mayonnaise:
This is a smooth and very moreish vegan mayonnaise.
Place tofu, dry mustard, sea salt, apple balsamic vinegar, rice malt syrup and lemon juice into the blender.
Blend with low speed, and pour in slowly the olive oil with 2 teaspoons of very hot water to emulsify the mayonnaise.
The mayonnaise can be kept in the fridge for 3 weeks.
Enjoy!
Method
1. Heat oven to 200˚C, (180˚C for fan ovens), gas mark 6.
2. Coat the cauliflower and aubergine in 1tbsp of the oil and tip out onto a baking sheet. Roast for 20 minutes, turning the veg halfway through cooking, until everything is golden and tender.
3. Soften the onion in the remaining oil in a large saucepan. Stir in the curry paste and turmeric to the saucepan and cook for a couple of minutes until fragrant. Tip in the Garden Gourmet fillet pieces and fry for 2-3 minutes. Add the desiccated coconut, Wunda, chickpeas, cauliflower and aubergine to the saucepan and bring to the boil. Turn off the heat and stir through the tomatoes.
4. Add the lime juice, coriander and season to taste before spooning the curry over the freshly cooked rice and then dive in!
Did you like this dish? Try this vegan chicken-style curry recipe.
Preparation
Prepare the brownie
Heat the oven at 350F (180°C).
Prepare the flax egg by mixing 2 tbsp of ground flaxseeds with 5 tbsp of lukewarm water. Stir well and sit while preparing the rest.
In a medium bowl, mash the ripe banana using a fork. Add in the pumpkin sauce, the nut butter, maple syrup and vanilla extract. Mix well. Note: You can use any nut butter of your choice: almond or cashew give the lightest flavor, but you can use peanut butter for an extra flavor. For the pumpkin sauce you can simply make your own by steaming half a pumpkin and blending with a splash of water.
Pour the flax egg in the wet mixture, and mix well until fully combined.
Prepare the dry mixture by mixing all the dry ingredients except pecan and chocolate chips in a large bowl.
Pour the wet mixture over the dry one and mix well using a wooden spatula or your hands until everything is combined and you obtain an homogeneous dough.
Add half of the chopped pecans and half the chocolate chunks and mix roughly.
Spread the brownie dough in a ovenproof skillet. Sprinkle the other half of pecan and chocolate.
Bake in oven for about 20 minutes. When finished, let cool down at room temperature a few minutes.
Prepare the chocolate coating and dress
Gently melt the coconut oil in a double boiler. Remove from heat and mix in the maple syrup and cocoa powder until perfectly combined.
Drizzle the chocolate sauce over the brownie.
Cut your favorite MiiRO popsicle in big pieces and spread on the warm brownie.
Preparation
Preheat oven to 160oC/ Fan or 140oC/gas 3.
Method
Lightly grease the tin then line the base and sides with non-stick baking parchment.
Measure all of the cake ingredients into a large bowl and beat well for 1 minute until thoroughly combined.  Turn into the prepared tin and level the surface.
Bake for about 1¾ – 2 hours or until skewer inserted into the centre comes out clean and the cake is shrinking from sides of the tin.  Cover the cake with foil after 1 hour if it is beginning to brown too much.  Leave to cool in the tin for 10 minutes then turn out, peel off the parchment and finish cooling on a wire rack.
Decorate as you wish.  I like to melt a little apricot jam, brush on cake and decorate the top with nuts and dried fruits, placing marzipan festive shapes around the cake.
Preparation
I’ve played around with a lot of recipes before settling on this one, some full of bright herb freshness and grated veg, some packed with protein-rich tofu, and all were good, but what I look for in a burger is a deep moreish favour, savoury and complex, so this is the one.
I use brown rice here, but any cooked grain you have will do – quinoa, pearl barley and farro all work well.
I like to make a quick pickled cucumber to top these with. Thinly slice a quarter of a cucumber and pop it into a bowl with a pinch of salt, a squeeze of agave syrup, and a good tablespoon of white wine vinegar, then scrunch together and leave to sit while you make your burgers. A homemade quick pickle that beats a gherkin any day. 🙂
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Get a large pan on a medium heat and add a splash of olive oil. Once the pan is good and hot, add the mushrooms and thyme and season with salt and pepper. Fry on a good heat until the mushrooms have dried out and are slightly browned, then set to one side and leave to cool.
Next, drain the white beans and put them into a food processor with the dates, garlic, parsley, tahini and soy sauce. Pulse until you have a smoothish mixture, then transfer to a bowl and add the rice, breadcrumbs, lemon zest and the cooled mushrooms. Mix well, then put into the fridge for 10 minutes or so to firm up.
Once cooled, divide the mixture into 8 portions and shape into 8 patties.  Place them on a baking tray lined with baking paper and pop into the fridge until needed. (This can be done the day before – and the burgers freeze well at this point.)
Preheat your oven to 230°C/fan 210°C/gas 8 and bake the burgers for 15 minutes, until nicely brown. If you like cheese on your burger, pop a slice on top a couple of minutes before they come out of the oven.
While your burgers are cooking, get your toppings ready. I go with avocado, tomato relish and the quick cucumber pickle above, plus a few spinach leaves. Hummus, grated carrot and sprouts is another favourite, but feel free to improvise and try it your own way.
Once the burgers are golden, toast your buns and layer up your burgers. I like to serve them with the sweet potato fries. You can’t beat a burger and chips, and these ones are as healthy as they are tasty.
Method
1. To cook the ginger rice – Peel the ginger, onions and garlic and chop it finely
2. Heat up the oil in a pot and brown the chopped vegetables without them taking too much colour. Add the rice and stir well
3. Add water to the pot and put on a lid on. Bring it to the boil and let it simmer on low heat for 10 mins and let it hereafter rest in the pot for 5-10 minutes before serving
4. To make the slaw – Chop the pointed cabbage finely and cut the cucumbers in coarse pieces
5. Chop the coriander and the nuts coarsely and mix it with the cabbage
6. Grate the lime peel with the fine side of the grater and juice the lime
7. Mix the lime peel and juice with the yoghurt and mix it with the cabbage just before serving
8. To cook the nuggets – To cook the nuggets, place on a lined backing tray with greaseproof paper and bake in preheat oven to 180⁰C from frozen: 8 minutes
9. To serve – Skewer three crispy nuggets (per portion) on some grill skewers with the slaw, ginger rice, teriyaki sauce and garnish with coriander.
Chef’s tip:
This recipe is also great as a family starter to share.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Provamel Soy Alternative Cream helps to make this Vegan Chili Sin Carne.
Method
Heat a tbsp of olive oil in a thick bottom cooking pot.
Finely chop the onion, garlic, chili and pepper and bake in the olive oil.
Add the sieved tomatoes and tomato puree after 5 mins.
Season with oregano, paprika powder, pepper and salt.
Let it simmer for 20 mins. over a low heat.
Garnish with the soya cream, chopped red onion, coriander and serve with the tortillas.
Preparation
Preparation time: 25 minutes
Cooking time: 25 minutes
Method
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Prepare the flax ‘egg’ by combining the flax seeds and water in a bowl and popping it in the fridge for around 15 minutes.
Put the coconut oil into a ramekin and heat in the oven for 5 minutes, until melted.
Peel and core the apple and chop it into small pieces. In a saucepan, cook on a medium heat with the maple syrup, water and spices. Simmer until you have something resembling apple puree, stirring occasionally to ensure the maple syrup isn’t burning and most of the water has evaporated. Set aside to cool.
While the apple is cooking you can start to make the blonde mix. Drain and rinse the chickpeas and put these, together with the dates and the flax egg, into a mixing bowl. Use an electronic hand blender or processor to combine.
If you need to, use a little of the melted oil to grease a brownie tin and add the rest to the blondie mix.
Stir in the remaining ingredients, except the chia seeds. If the mixture looks too dry you can add a tbsp of non-dairy milk (this will depend on the amount of moisture in your apple puree).
Pour the mixture into a brownie tin and spread evenly with a spatula. Sprinkle the chia seeds across the top and bake in the oven for 25 minutes.
Once cooled, remove from the tin to a cooling rack. Slice into squares and store in the fridge: they will firm up and keep for longer.
Method
In a deep pot, melt the coconut oil. Then add the chopped onions, garlic and celery. Cook for 5 mins until the onion is soft.
Add the diced sweet potato, carrot and peppers. Sauté for a further 5 mins.
Stir in the spices, chilli or chilli flakes/ powder, stock, soya sauce or tamari, tomato puree, chopped tomatoes and black-eyed beans. Bring to the boil and then allow to simmer on a low heat for 15-20 mins, until the vegetables are tender.
Stir in the protein powder, if using.
Stir in the lemon juice and ¾ of the chopped fresh coriander. Ladle into bowls and garnish with the remaining chopped coriander and sprinkle of ground flaxseed if desired. Enjoy!
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Method
Pour milk, oats and chia seeds in a tupperware. Shake well. Cover and leave in the fridge overnight.
When ready to use, mix the oats and chia seeds so that all liquid is absorbed.
Sweeten to taste with vanilla sugar.
Share evenly between two bowls.
Top with fruits and almonds. Sprinkle mint leaves if desired.
Method
1. Preheat the oven and cook the VFC Fillet according to package instructions until crispy!
2. Cook potato rosti/hashbrowns according to package instructions
3. Combine mayonnaise and sriracha sauce
4. Preheat frying pan to a medium heat
5. Butter buns and toast on the warm pan until golden and crispy
6. Add your favourite vegan cheese slices to the VFC Fillet at the last minute and finish in the oven
To plate:
1. Place heel of the bun on plate
2. Add layers of baby gem lettuce
3. Place potato rostis/hashbrowns onto lettuce
4. Drizzle half the sauce
5. Place VFC Fillet with melted cheese and drizzle the rest of the sauce
6. Place the top of the bun and enjoy!
Preparation
Serves 2-3
Method
Preheat oven to 300.
In a large bowl, add the first four cut vegetables, and carefully toss with couple tablespoons of oil and pinch of salt and pepper to coat. Transfer the contents into the bottom of a Dutch oven.
In the same bowl, coat the exterior of the celeriac with oil, more salt and pepper and place on top of the vegetables in the Dutch oven.
Add liquid and bay leaf, then cover and roast low and slow for 3 1/2 to 4 hours until done. You can tell when it’s finished when you can pierce through the celery root with a long skewer easily.
Remove from the oven, carve slices of celeriac monster and serve with the vegetables. Garnish with the fresh herbs and parsley, and serve with horseradish, if desired.
Method
Cook 750g small potatoes in salted boiling water until tender, drain and cool slightly, then cut into bite-size pieces and tip into a large bowl.
Trim and finely slice 1 bunch of spring onions.
Cut 6 radishes into fine matchsticks.
Roughly chop 6 cornichons and 1 tablespoon capers.
In a small bowl whisk together 2 tablespoons wholegrain mustard, 1 tablespoon white wine vinegar and 3 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Pour the dressing over the potatoes, add the spring onions, radishes, cornichons, capers, 2 tablespoons roughly chopped chives and 2 tablespoons freshly chopped flatleaf parsley and gently mix together.
Serve at room temperature.
Preparation
Preheat oven to 180 c/ 350 f/ Gas mark 4.
Method
Line your bread tin with greaseproof paper or grease it with oil or soya butter.
Add the full tub of Alpro yoghurt to a large bowl.
Fill the empty yoghurt tub with oats and pour that amount into the bowl with the yoghurt. Scrape out any bits sticking to the sides.
Repeat this step so you should have 2 yoghurt tub measures full of porridge oats in the bowl.
Add all the rest of your ingredients to the bowl too.
Fold all your ingredients together.
If it seems a bit dry add another tbsp of milk until the mixture is like a wet oaty dough.
When the mixture is well combined add it to your bread tin and smooth the top.
Sprinkle the seeds over the top.
Bake for approx. 45 – 55 minutes and when it is 10 minutes from the end take the bread out of the tin and turn it upside down in the tine and put back into the oven. Cook it like that for the last 10 minutes.
When it’s ready take it out and turn it upside down on a wire rack and leave it until it’s cool. Then enjoy!
Method
Remove Yuba from packet and place on cutting board. (There’s no need to unfold the sheets, but if you are unfamiliar with the yuba, there are two folded sheets in the pack, FYI!) Cut yuba to desired width, like you would with regular pasta – for this dish, I prefer about 1/2″ wide noodles. Toss cut yuba into a large mixing bowl and pull apart to separate.
Rinse the kale and strip the main vein out, reserve to snack on, stir-fry or pickle! Cut similarly to the yuba noodles in width (hint: cut lengthwise to get longer rather than shorter strips.) Toss chopped kale in with the yuba and set aside.
For the sesame sauce, these are the basic ingredient quantities, but as always, adjust to taste! (You can use this sauce with anything, by the way, regular noodles, as a dipping sauce for veggies & tofu, etc etc etc.) Peel ginger and grate, conserving the liquid as well. Peel and mince the garlic (I tend to drop both ginger and garlic into the food processor at the same time and mince into almost a paste.) Add all other ingredients and puree together.
Add sauce to yuba and kale and mix well! Garnish as you like. As a side dish, serves 4-6 and as a main, 2-3.
Sesame sauce can be prepared up to a few days in advance.  The salad can be prepared a day in advance – yuba and kale both hold up very well, and the kale actually softens up a bit with time!  (Perfect for picnic planning.)
Method
Throw all the ingredients in a blender.
Whizz until smooth. Taste and adjust if required. This smoothie is sweet enough for my palate, but it you want it sweeter, you can add ½ tsp agave or date syrup or a few drops of stevia.
Pour into a glass. Decorate with a few goji berries and serve. Enjoy!
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Preparation
1. Preheat the oven to 180C.
2. Drain the chickpeas and pat dry with kitchen towel. Place in a bowl and add in the cumin, garlic granules, olive oil and season generously with salt and pepper. Toss to coat in the spices and roast in the oven on a flat baking tray for 20 minutes or until slightly crispy.
3. Cook the rice as per the packet instructions, spoon into 2 bowls.
4. Top the bowls with the falafel, sliced avocado, sliced red pepper, sliced red onion, rocket, olives and baby carrots.
5. Spoon the Alpro Plain Unsweetened Big Pot into the middle and top each bowl with a little of the harissa marbling this into the dressing.
6. Sprinkle over the chickpeas and serve.
Method
Pour some boiling water from the kettle into a pan, put on a low heat and chuck in your edamame beans (these need approx. 5 minutes to cook and should only be on a simmer, never a boil)
In a fry pan, add some olive oil and put on a medium heat
Chop up your onion and throw in the pan
Chop/mince your garlic and ginger and add to the pan after a minute or two
Add a good shake or two of cayenne pepper/chili powder and stir well
Add a generous splash or two of soy sauce and mix
Wash your stir fry mix and add to the pan, stir well
Wash your kale, roughly chop and add to the pan. Mix in well so that the kale is combined in with the veggies
Your edamame beans should be ready now, so drain into a colander and set aside (briefly)
If the kale is starting to wilt and darken in colour, open the tofu and chuck into the pan. Mix well
Add the edamame beans and stir in well
Serve and eat without hesitation!
Preparation
Serves 4, as an accompaniment
Method
Peel and cut the potatoes into large bite size chunks. Place them in a large saucepan and cover with water. Bring to the boil and then leave at a rolling simmer for 10 minutes.   Meanwhile, pour the oil into a large mixing bowl and add the garlic cloves (skin on) and a generous pinch of sea salt.
Drain the potatoes and then tip into the bowl of oil and garlic. Mix together, not minding if the potatoes mar on the edges – this will add to their crispness later. Tip the potatoes onto a baking tray, scatter over the rosemary and roast for 1 hour in the oven or until golden and crunchy.
While the potatoes are roasting, make up the tahini sauce. Place the tahini and water into a bowl and stir together until completely smooth. Pour in the oil, cider vinegar (or lemon juice if using), maple syrup and season with salt and pepper. Stir together until you have a smooth and creamy sauce. Taste and add any extra seasoning if you think it needs it.
When the potatoes are ready, and crisp and golden, tip them out onto a serving platter, discarding the rosemary stalks and taking the roasted garlic cloves and squeezing the soft garlic interior into the tahini sauce.  Now scatter over the peppers and mix with the potatoes, before drizzling over the tahini sauce and serving immediately.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Combine the lentils, vegetable broth, onion, garlic, jalapeño (if using), and salt in a slow cooker; mix well.
Cover and cook on low for 6 to 8 hours. Season with salt (if using) and pepper.
Method
Sift the dry ingredients (flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, salt & sugar) into a bowl and mix together. 
Add the wet ingredients (almond milk & oil) and mix together until combined to form a dough. 
Roll out 12 balls of the dough and place on a lined baking sheet with plenty of space between them (they will spread a little). 
Bake at 180 degrees for 10 minutes, then allow to cool on the tray. 
Preparation
Serves 2 as a big lunch, or 4 if having something with it – like bread and (more) olives, and other tapas-y things.
Method
You can really do this in any particular order. Ultimately it all gets mixed up!
In a fry pan chuck a good handful or two of sunflower seeds and dry fry. You want them slightly browned, so they have a lovely nutty taste. Put them to the side while you do the rest
Rip up the lettuce heads into a colander and wash. Then add the kale and wash, massaging as you go. (Massaging kale seems hilarious at first, but it does help it to soften, and basically you’re just rubbing it between your fingers. When I first started eating raw kale I found it quite tough, so the more you massage it then softer it gets. If the kale is very fresh you may hardly need to do this. It really is a case of personal taste. I don’t notice the toughness of kale in the same way I used to, because I eat it such a lot.) Rip the kale and lettuce into smaller pieces, and discard any woody kale stalks
Chop up your peppers, celery, cucumber, gherkins, olives and chuck in a big bowl
Add the puy lentils and marinated tofu and mix well
Add the lettuce and kale bit by bit, mixing as you go. A good salad is one where you get a bit of everything, so try to evenly distribute
Add the sunflower seeds, a good splash of olive oil and a drizzle of balsamic vinegar
Crack pepper over the top and a little salt if you think it needs it
Serve in big bowls and enjoy!
Additions: Crusty bread, hummus, more olives, guacamole, aubergine dip or a tomato, red onion and basil salad all go well with this. Create a table of colour with the salad as the centre piece! Also perfect picnic grub on a lovely summer day. This is a filling salad though, and delicious just as it is.
Method
Hold the corn upright in a mixing bowl, cut the corn kernels off the cob in a downward motion.
Cube the cucumbers, halve the tomatoes, mince the garlic, shallot, cilantro and peppers, throw it all in the mixing bowl.
Juice the lemon and lime.
Mix everything together well and Enjoy!
Notes
You can refrigerate this dish for up to a week. You will end up with a lot of juice, I just drink it, but you could also use this juice as a marinade or pour it over rice.
Preparation
Prep time: 30 mins
Cook time: 40 mins
Serves: 2
Method
1. Preheat your oven to 200C/390F/GM6.
2. Chop squash into slices, around 2cm wide. There is no need to peel them at this stage.
3. Place on a baking tray and bake in the oven for 20 mins. (If using aubergine you can
griddle it. If using tofu you can bake with a small amount of oil for around 20 mins.)
4. To make the sauce, roughly chop the onion and garlic cloves. Then chop the ginger,
slightly smaller than the onion and garlic. Then add to a blender and blend until smooth.
5. To make the sauce add some oil to a pan on a medium heat. Add the paste, making sure to stir often. If it begins to stick you can add a little water. Cook until golden brown. Add garam masala, curry powder and ground turmeric and mix for a minute. Then slowly add more water until you get the desired sauce consistency. Then add a little more water and leave on a low heat, stirring occasionally.
6. Remove the skins from roasted squash pieces.
7. Add 3tbsp water to the cornflour/cornstarch and mix in a bowl.
8. In a separate bowl add the cornflakes or breadcrumbs the salt and sashimi togarashi
then mix.
9. Dip the squash pieces into the cornflour mix and then press into the breadcrumb mix and fry in a pan with a little oil. Repeat this with all the pieces and cook until golden brown.
10. Assemble the rice, sauce and butternut pieces on a plate and enjoy!
Preparation
The key to this recipe is the preparation, which only takes about 10 minutes, so first things first get your veggies and condiments ready and arranged in front of you.
Shred the cabbage and carrot, if you have a food processor with a slicer attachment then that’s perfect, otherwise julienne or grate them.
Cut the cucumber into inch-long lengths and then match-stick them.
Cut the spring onions into inch-long lengths and then cut into quarters.
Smash up the peanuts (use plain, non-roasted with no skins).
Cut the limes into quarters (if you bash them on the work surface before cutting them you’ll get more juice out).
Get the marinated tofu out and ready in front of you.
Roughly chop the coriander.
Making these is a bit like a production line, so arrange all of the above in a way that all the pieces are accessible, then open the rice paper and get a large, shallow dish and fill it with warm water.
Method
1) Soak one sheet of rice paper in the warm water until it becomes pliable, but not totally floppy. This should be about 10 – 20 seconds; it’ll continue to soften up once you take it out of the water.
2) Lay the sheet of rice paper in front of you, and then add into the middle of the rice paper in a line, the cabbage, carrot, cucumber and spring onion, tofu, a pinch of peanuts and coriander and a squeeze of lime. The trick here is to not overfill them as you’re going to roll them up.
3) Fold in the left and right sides of the rice paper, then fold up the bottom to cover the ingredients (think of making an envelope), then roll the rice paper and ingredients to make a roll.
4) Place on a plate and repeat steps 1-3 until you have enough summer rolls.
5) Serve with additional lime and coriander and with a selection of dipping sauces.
Did you enjoy this recipe? Check out these rainbow rolls with peanut dipping sauce!
Preparation
Makes 2 sandwiches
Method
Spread a small amount of butter on one side of each slice of bread, make sure it is room temp and spreadable.
Smear almond butter over the unbuttered side of two of the pieces of bread. Top with a generous amount of fresh berries in any artistic way you like, add a few mint leaves, don’t be shy about piling them on. Drizzle maple syrup on top of the berries and place the other slice of bread, buttered side up, on top.
On medium heat, heat up a cast iron or grill pan. Place the sandwich into the pan and press down lightly with a spatula. After a minute, flip and repeat on the other side, repeat as needed until golden brown.  Much like roasting marshmallows over an open fire, heat until your desired griddled colour is achieved.
Remove from heat, slice into fourths, garnish with fresh mint and serve warm.
OPTIONS: Try this with all sorts of combos, different seasonal berries, fresh sliced strawberries etc.  Works great when you’re trying to cut down on processed sugar intake and sugary jams.
Method
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Thoroughly wash your lentils and rice. Cook them following the packet instructions. The recipe will hold together better if the lentils are slightly overcooked. Once cooked, drain and set aside.
In the meantime, prepare all your other ingredients.
Preheat oven to 200°C.
Heat the oil in a large pan or wok. Once heated, add the onion, garlic, carrot, and kale. Cook for a two minutes.
Add the mushrooms, oregano and thyme and continue to cook until everything is tender.
Using a large mixing bowl, combine your vegetables, rice, and lentils with the ground flax seeds, nutritional yeast, nuts, and raisins.
Mix everything well to ensure good binding of the ingredients.
Press the mixture firmly into a casserole dish.
Cook for 25-30 minutes.
Serve with some rich onion gravy!
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Lightly oil enough mini muffin pan to yield 48 mini muffins, or one 12-cup, regular-sized muffin pan.
Method
In a small saucepan, bring the quinoa to the boil, then cover the pot, reduce the heat to its lowest setting, and cook for 25 minutes. Turn off the heat and let stand, covered, for 10 minutes. Uncover the quinoa, fluff with a fork, and set aside.
In a medium-sized bowl, whisk together the non-dairy milk, flaxseed meal (flaxseed mixed with 3tbsp water) mashed banana, maple syrup, and vanilla.
In a large bowl, combine the flour, almond meal, baking powder, salt, and spices.
Add the wet ingredients to the dry, mixing until just incorporated. Gently fold in the cooked quinoa and apricots.
Scoop the batter (about 2 tsp per mini muffin, or a scant ¼ cup per regular-sized muffin) into the prepared muffin pans and bake until a toothpick or sharp knife inserted into the center of a muffin comes out clean (15 minutes for mini muffins, 20 minutes for regular muffins)
Method
Preheat the grill on high.
Roughly chop the tomatoes and tip into a large bowl. Squash them with your hands until all the flesh is reduced to juice.
Rub the slice of bread with the clove of garlic and crushed rosemary. Drizzle with olive oil and place on a baking sheet under the preheated grill. Toast on both sides until golden then carefully cut into rough cubes and add to the tomatoes in the mixing bowl. Mix together and set aside for ten minutes while you prepare the remaining vegetables.
In a separate small bowl whisk together the dressing ingredients.
Add all the other ingredients to the tomatoes and bread and mix well.
Drizzle over the dressing, plate and enjoy.
Method
To Make the Stew:
Preheat the oven to 200c (fan).
Place a cast-iron dutch oven (with lid) over a medium/low heat and add the oil.
Once the pan is to temperature, add the onion and fry lightly for a minute. Add the garlic and parsley stalks before frying for a further 2 minutes. Do not allow the onions or garlic to brown.
Add the spices and stir well to coat the onion. Add the aubergine, chickpeas, tinned tomatoes, brown sugar, and vegetable stock. Stir well.
Cover the pot with the lid and place in the preheated oven for 90 minutes, removing to stir every half hour.
While the stew cooks, make the flatbreads.
To Make the Flatbreads:
Combine the flours and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the dough hook. If you don’t have a stand mixer, just use a medium sized bowl.
Place 100 ml of the water into a small bowl and add the sugar and yeast. Mix well and set aside to allow the yeast to bloom.
Mix the yeast mixture into the flour along with the rest of the water. If using a stand mixer, knead using the dough hook attachment for roughly 8-10 minutes, until the dough is smooth. If kneading by hand, sprinkle a counter with flour and knead vigorously for 8-10 minutes.
Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, cover with a damp tea-towel and leave to proof somewhere room temperature for at least one hour.
Once proofed, punch down the dough to remove the larger air bubbles.
Lightly flour a rimmed baking tray. Turn the dough out onto a clean surface and slice the dough into 8 even pieces. Roll them into tight balls and place on the floured tray to prove, covered with a damp tea-towel. Leave to proof a second time for around 40 minutes.
Once proofed, roll out each ball to around 15cm. Place a dry, cast-iron skillet over medium heat.
Place one flatbread in the skillet and cook until puffed and bubbly. Flip after around 3 minutes, making sure the bottom isn’t burning. Cook for a further minute or two on the second side before removing. Repeat with all of the flatbreads. Wrap the cooked flatbreads in a clean tea-towel to keep them warm.
Method
Bring a large pot of water to a boil and cook the soba noodles for 3 minutes.
Drain and rinse in cold water, set aside.
Place the rinsed arame in a small pan and add enough filtered water to cover, bring to a boil and simmer on low heat for 15 minutes.
Gently stir in the sauerkraut, tahini and corn and simmer for 5 minutes.
Arrange the soba noodles in a bowl and top with the creamy arame.
Garnish with the spring onions and lemon zest.
Delicious!
Preparation
Serves 2-4
Method
To make the cauliflower-cashew buttah base
In a medium-sized sauce pot, add the dismembered cauliflower, cashews, garlic, salt, rice vinegar and bay leaf along with 2 cups of water and cover.
Heat on medium-high until it reaches a slow boil, then steam for 10-15 minutes until the cauliflower is cooked throughout and breaks apart easily. Let it cool, then strain and remove the bay leaf.
Transfer the mixture to a high-speed blender. Start blending on low speed and, using damper/plunger, mash all the ingredients down to ensure everything gets blended. Add a few splashes of water or non-dairy milk only if absolutely needed (we’re looking to create as thick of a mixture as possible for the buttah so the less liquid the better). Once completely blended and smooth, measure out 1/2 cup of the butter and chill the rest for another use.
Save the remaining buttah base in a closed container in the fridge for up to a week.
To make the eggplant
Preheat oven to 375. Lightly oil a baking sheet.
To prep the eggplant, slice it in half lengthwise and score the inside without piercing the skin, with one tablespoon of oil rubbed into each top half. Season with the salt. Spread a thin layer of cauliflower buttah on the open face of each half allowing some to get between the slices.
On a separate plate, apply potato chip crust to cover the open eggplant flesh. Add a few dollops of cauliflower buttah to the top and place sliced tomatoes along with and bake face side up for 40-45 minutes.
Remove from heat garnish with fresh basil leaves and serve.
Method
Remove the sausages from their packaging. Take 3 sausages and flatten, moulding together into a disc shape. Season with salt and pepper. Repeat.
Add a dash of olive oil to a frying pan and cook your Meatless sausage patties over a medium-high heat for 4 mins each side.
Meanwhile, add your baby spinach to another pan, with a knob of butter if using, and cover with a lid or plate. Cook over a medium heat to wilt.
Lightly toast your muffin.
Layer up the muffin by adding a bed of spinach to the bottom, then the sausage patty and top with the avocado.
Preparation
Note: If using coconut oil as the fat, make sure the other ingredients are at room temperature, or the oil will harden into clumps during mixing.
Makes one 8 X 8-inch square pan
Method
Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350° F. Oil an 8 x 8-inch square pan and then line the bottom with parchment paper. Do not oil the paper.
Place a wire mesh strainer over a medium bowl. Add the all-purpose flour, pastry flour, cocoa, granulated sugar, whole cane sugar, arrowroot or cornstarch, baking powder, and salt to the strainer and stir with a whisk to sift the ingredients into the bowl. (If any small bits remain in the strainer, add them to the mixture in the bowl.) Whisk to aerate the mixture.
Whisk the oil, maple syrup, nondairy milk, vanilla, and chocolate extract, if using, in a separate medium bowl until completely combined. Pour into the dry ingredients and mix with a silicone spatula until the batter, which will be thick, is smooth. Allow the batter to rest for ten minutes.
Stir the chocolate chips and nuts, if using, into the batter. Spoon the batter into the prepared pan, and spread into an even layer with a metal spatula.
Bake for 23 minutes until the top is set and dry and the sides have pulled just slightly away from the pan.
Remove the pan from the oven and set on a cooling rack. Immediately insert a wooden tester diagonally into the brownies. The tester will be coated with batter, but not wet. If necessary, bake for another minute.
Cool to room temperature. The middle of the cake will sink as it cools; don’t worry. Once cold you can push the sides down to level the cake if you like. Refrigerate until very cold before cutting into squares.
Keeping: Refrigerate the brownies in a covered container, in layers separated by parchment, for up to three days, or freeze for up to one month. Defrost unwrapped or eat straight out of the freezer.
Method
Wash and peel all the veg and cut them into large chunks at an angle.
Melt the butter in a large sauce pan and add the chopped onions once melted.
Cook the onions until they soften and are coated in the butter. Around 4 minutes maybe.
Add the herbs then and stir to coat the onions in the herbs.
Then add the flour and stir to make sure this mixture doesn’t stick to the pan. Let the flour and the herbs cook with the onions for a few minutes so the butter absorbs the flavour.
Then add the stock very slowly. Add in just a little bit at a time stirring all the time. This will form a kind of gravy-like liquid.
Then add in the rest of the vegetables and if you think the mixture needs more liquid just add in a bit more boiling water.
Add some black pepper and salt if you think it needs it (I didn’t use salt).
Put a lid on then and let it simmer on a low heat for around an hour or until the veg are cooked.
Serve with spuds anyway you like!
Method
Cook, or grill the sausages according to the instructions on the package.
Half the cherry tomatoes and slice the cucumber.
Cut the buns lengthwise. Place the sausages in the buns and cut in three to four pieces.
Serve on plates with halved tomatoes, cucumber slices, vegan ketchup and apple sauce.
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 180°C (160°C if using a fan oven)/ gas mark 4 and line a baking tray with parchment paper.
2. Using an electric whisk, cream together the margarine and both types of sugar until the grains dissolve and the mixture becomes paler.
3. Whilst continuing to whisk the margarine and sugar, pour in the OGGS® Aquafaba and the remaining ingredients, other than the chocolate chips and continue whisking ’til you’ve formed a lovely thick dough.
4. Add the dark chocolate chips, orange zest and crushed hazelnuts into the mixture and stir thoroughly with a big spoon.
5. Pop in the fridge for 30 minutes.
6. Using two teaspoons, gather spoonfuls of the dough and roll them into little balls, each roughly the size of a golf ball. Spread them out on a baking tray, about 6 per tray as they tend to spread out a lot.
7. Bake for 10-12 minutes. In this time, they should have turned golden, whilst retaining that crucial gooey centre.
Method
Preheat the oven to 350F/180C.
Make the crust first. Crush the ginger biscuits, or process until crumb-like. Add the melted coconut oil, and then mix well. Press into a flan tin, shape it into all the sides, and firmly across the bottom.
Put the cream cheese through to the vanilla into a food processor; and mix the ingredients until completely smooth, with no lumps. Take out half of this mixture from the processor and spread it in the bottom of the crust.
To the remaining cream cheese mix, add the blueberries and other ingredients, through to the nutmeg; and mix well. Very carefully place it onto the first layer of cheesecake.
Bake for 50-60 minutes, and after removing from the oven, allow it to cool, then put it into the fridge to chill. This will take a few hours.
Can be frozen, but allow at least ten minutes to defrost before serving.
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 180C.
2. Mix together all the ingredients except the cherries until well combined and spoon into two small shallow baking dishes.
3. Dot with the cherries pushing them into the oats.
4. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes or until set with a lightly coloured crust on top.
5. Drizzle with a little extra maple syrup and serve!
Crave more recipes like this? Sign up to try Veganuary today to get our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, recipes, and more all for free!
Method
1. Melt the cocoa butter over a bain marie.
2. Slowly stir in the cocoa powder and the agave syrup, and take off the heat.
3. In a bowl, mix the ground hazelnuts, the chilli and the peanut butter.
4. Slowly pour the chocolate mixture in the silicone mould, filling the bonbon holes half way.
5. With a teaspoon, scoop some of the peanut butter mixture into each hole. Top off your bonbons with another layer of chocolate mix.
6. Stick in the freezer for a couple of hours or leave in the fridge overnight.
Preparation
Makes 1 medium sized jar.
Method
Soak the tomatillos in a bowl of warm water for 10 minutes to remove the sticky layer from them.
Finely dice the onion and place into a small bowl. Put the lime zest, juice and sugar into the bowl with the onions. This will soften them.
Put the washed tomatillos into a food processer and pulse until roughly chopped.
Roughly chop the coriander, then put all the ingredients into a bowl and mix.
Method
Combine all ingredients in your food processor.
Done!
Method
All you have to do is add all cashew cheese ingredients into a good blender and blend until you get a very smooth consistency.
Then pour the mixture into a pan and heat up. Make sure you stir constantly. After a few minutes, it will change texture and turn into a thick paste.
Transfer the paste into a tupperware dish and even out so it’s neatly packed into the dish.
Let set in the fridge for 1 hour or until it has completely cooled down.
Then sprinkle some herbs de Provence on a plate. Coat the cheese on all sides. Enjoy!
Yes, that was it already, so simple!!
— Exceedingly Vegan
Method
Fire up your BBQ and wait 30 minutes until the coals are glowing and hot, hot, hot.
In the meantime, wash and half the peaches and allow for the Oumph! Kebab Spiced to defrost, and pierce them onto skewers. If you’re using wooden skewers on your BBQ then make sure to soak them in water for at least an hour before using.
For the glaze, simply mix maple syrup, tamari, black pepper and rapeseed oil in a small bowl, then brush your skewers with the glaze before placing them onto the hot BBQ. Turn the skewers regularly until the peaches are starting to caramelise and the kebab is lightly browned.
To prepare the tzatziki dip, finely shred the cucumber with a grater or a food processor, then transfer the shreds to a nut milk bag or a clean kitchen towel and squeeze out as much of the water as you can.
Transfer the cucumber shreds to a large bowl and stir in the salt, then allow it to rest for 10 minutes and squeeze out any releasing liquid again. Mix the cucumber and salt with the dairy-free yoghurt, lemon juice, garlic and fresh dill.
To serve, drizzle the grilled peach & kebab skewers with a little tzatziki and use the rest to dip some freshly toasted pitta bread.
Preparation
The filling can also be frozen and then used at a future date. 
Method
The filling:
Finely chop the onion and soften in a large pan with the oil.
Once softened, add the soya mince and cook-off, stirring frequently, for about 5 minutes. The kind of soya mince I used needed to be rehydrated first so make sure you follow the instructions for that. If you are using frozen, break it up a bit and add it to the pan.
Add in the gravy, ketchup, Henderson’s, pepper and oregano to the pan. Stir it all together then cook over a medium heat. Try to reduce the mixture down so that it’s not too wet. You should be able to drag a spoon through the pan and have the mixture stay apart for a few seconds.
This can then be refrigerated until you are ready to use it. It will freeze too so you can make lots this time and then defrost ahead of time in the future.
The pie:
Get your pie dish or dishes ready and roll out the shortcrust pastry as per the instructions so you have enough to cover the bottom and the sides of your dish. This is a proper pie, not a stew with a puff pastry hat on.
Line the bottom and sides of your dish with the pastry and then blind bake at 200C for around 15 mins until the pastry turns golden. You can prick the pastry on the bottom of the pan with a knife to stop it rising up and help it cook a little better.
While your pastry is blind baking, you can roll out your puff pastry for the top as per the instructions on the packet.
Once your shortcrust is ready, add the filling and then place the puff pastry on top. Crimp around the edges and then make a couple of holes in the top with a sharp knife to let the steam out.
Brush with soya milk (or other non-sweet plant milk) and bake at 200C for around 30 mins or until the top is lovely and golden.
Want more recipes just like this? Sign up to Veganuary for recipes, meal plans, nutritional advice, celebrity cookbooks and more (all for free!)
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C.
Add the carrots, cumin seeds and oil to a lined baking tray and rub to combine. Sprinkle with a tsp of salt and place in the preheated oven for about 20-30mins or until the carrots are tender and roasted.
Line another baking tray and add the chickpeas, another tbsp. of oil and a good sprinkle of salt. Stir to combine and add to the oven to crisp up. Stir after 10 minutes and continue to cook for another 10 minutes, after which sprinkle on the ground cumin and stir again, place back into the oven for another 10 minutes.
Spread the houmous onto a large serving plate, once your carrots are cooked remove from the oven and place on top of the houmous, sprinkle over the crispy chickpeas, zaatar and fresh parsley leaves.
Credit: @natalie.naturally
Preparation
Serves 2
Method
Heat the sesame oil in a wok or large frying pan and add the mushrooms and carrots. Quickly cook the veggies for a minute until just softened then add the chilli and ginger and cook for another 10 seconds.
Throw the choi sum or baby leaf spinach and spring onions into the wok and cook until the leaves are only just wilted.
Remove from the pan and divide between 2 bowls.
Bring 700ml water to the boil in a large pan.
In a small bowl mix the miso with a couple of tablespoons of the water and then add the paste to the pan. Stir to combine and add a little more miso if needed.
Divide the drained and diced tofu between the bowls and pour over the miso broth.
Add tamari or soy sauce to taste and serve immediately.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Add the pumpkin, onions, vegetable stock, garlic, mustard, nutmeg and black pepper to a large pan.
Place the pan over a medium heat, cover and cook gently for around thirty minutes, stirring occasionally, until the pumpkin is tender.
Set the pan aside to cool a little and bring a fresh pan of water to the boil. Once boiling, add the macaroni to the water and cook according to the pasta’s instructions.
Meanwhile, add the pumpkin mix to a blender and blend until smooth.
Once cooked, drain the pasta and return to the pan. Add the pumpkin sauce and mix well to coat the macaroni fully.
Return the pan to a medium heat, add the cornflour paste and stir to thicken.
Remove from the heat, stir in the nutritional yeast, season with extra black pepper if desired and serve with a sprinkle of nutmeg on top.
Method
In a small bowl, cover the raw cashews with cold water and allow to soak for 3-4hrs at least or overnight. The cashews will puff up
Drain the cashews, then place them in a blender or food processor with 180ml of fresh water. Blitz to form a cashew milk
If using protein powder. Add to the cashew milk and whizz for a few seconds. (You can see the cashew cream is creamier)
In a big pot, melt coconut oil or add rapeseed oil. Add sliced red onions, crushed garlic, chopped ginger, chopped red chillies and diced celery. Brown for about 4 -5 mins on a medium heat
Add the chopped sweet potato, carrots, squash. Cook for about 5 mins
Add the curry powder and coat the vegetables for about 1 minute; taking care not to burn the spices (otherwise the curry will taste bitter)
Add the vegetable stock, tamari or soya sauce. Bring the pot to the boil, then reduce the heat (approx. 3-4 mins)
Now add the halved cherry tomatoes and tofu chunks (if using) and cook for 7-8 mins
Then add the cauliflower florets and pepper slices. Cook for about 3 mins, until vegetables are soft
Stir in the cashew cream. Heat through for about 3 mins
Turn off the heat and stir in the baby spinach and most of the chopped fresh coriander (reserve some for garnish). Season with salt & pepper to taste
Plate up & serve with a garnish of freshly chopped coriander
Optional: a sprinkle of ground flaxseed. This curry is great on its own or can be served with cauliflower rice or basmati rice or quinoa. Delicious!
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 4, or 2 with leftovers 
This is a meal that you will make again and again, so use my ingredients as a guide and experiment with what you like best. I also like it hot, so go easy on the cayenne, paprika and hot sauce if you’re not a fan. You can choose whatever beans you like, but I recommend 3 x tins whatever combination you choose. This is a hearty meal, and one that tastes better the next day. Great on toast for lunch!
Method
Put a good splash of olive oil in a pot and get it on a low/medium heat
Chop up your onion and toss in the pot
Chop up your garlic and throw in after a couple of minutes
Add your cumin, coriander, paprika and cayenne and mix well
Add your soy sauce and tomato puree and mix
Chop up your carrots and put them in (I typically slice them down the middle, down the middle again, and then across into little chunks)
Then goes your celery, chopped, but not too fine (the carrot and celery add texture and a bit of crunch)
Open your tins of beans, pour into a colander and rinse well in cold water
Add all the beans to the pot and mix well
Add the 2 x tins of tomatoes and mix again
Salt and pepper to taste and then leave simmering away for a good 30 minutes
Taste before serving – if it tastes great then you’re ready!
If you make in advance, leave simmering for 30 minutes or so, stirring occasionally, and then let it sit covered for a few hours. Heat up again before serving. These flavours love getting to know each other, so a little time is never a bad thing.
Enjoy!
Method
Place all ingredients into a blender and blend until smooth.
Depending on your blender, you might need to mix a little longer than usual for the carrots to be fully chopped up.
Preparation
Combine all the ingredients for the corn salsa in a bowl. To blend the flavours, put in the refrigerator for about 25 minutes.
Meanwhile, preheat the oven to 220º C. Place crispy tenders on a parchment-lined baking sheet and bake in the oven for 20-25 minutes turning once until crispy and golden.
Serve salsa on top of the 7 grain crispy tenders.
Method
Cut the buns lengthwise and grill both sides until grill marks are showing.
Grill the sausages according to the instructions on the package.
Spread the guacamole in the hotdog buns and cover with a few lettuce leaves.
Put the grilled sausages on top and spoon the salsa on it.
Garnish with coriander
Serve with Mexican vibe ingredients like nacho chips, grated vegan cheese, coriander, extra guacamole and lime.
For homemade salsa we will need: 2 tomatoes,100 g pineapple, ½ small red onion, 1 tblsp corn kernels, 1 small bunch of coriander, ½ jalapeno pepper (without seeds), salt, lime juice. Cut tomatoes (without seeds) and pineapple in small pieces and chop the onion, coriander and jalapeno pepper. Combine all ingredients and season with salt and lime juice.
Preparation
Makes 3½ cups
Method
Preheat the oven to 325°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
In a large bowl, stir together the liquid smoke, tamari soy sauce, maple syrup or agave nectar, and water.
Add the coconut flakes to the bowl, and using a rubber spatula, gently toss together the coconut with the liquid mixture until the coconut flakes are thoroughly coated.
Transfer the coated coconut flakes onto the prepared baking sheet, spreading them out in a single layer so they cook evenly, and place the baking sheet in the preheated oven. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, and stay close by.
After 10 or 15 minutes and every 5 minutes thereafter, you will want to toss and flip the flakes using a spatula. This is not only to make sure the flakes cook evenly but also to ensure that they don’t burn, and they will burn if you don’t regularly toss them.
Depending on your oven, you may also need to turn the baking sheet around to ensure they cook up evenly. As you continue to check, feel free to taste to make sure they’re nice and crispy. They will be a nice brown color when they’re done, and if you test them, you’ll notice the coconut flavor is pretty much gone.
Remove from the oven, and let cool before storing in a sealed bag or container. (They continue to crisp up as they cool.) The coconut bacon will stay fresh for up to 3 weeks—in or out of the refrigerator.
Suggestions for Serving
Make a classic Bacon, Lettuce, and Tomato Sandwich with some avocado slices!
Top a baked potato with a couple tablespoons, as you would with bacon bits.
Offer the coconut bacon as an option for a salad topping.
It’s a great garnish for soup.
Sprinkle them on top of your favorite Macaroni & Cheese recipe or on top of pasta.
For Your Information
Look for unsweetened coconut flakes in the bulk section of your grocery store; packaged brands include Edward & Sons/Let’s Do Organic and Bob’s Red Mill (USA only).
For Your Edification
Liquid smoke adds a wonderful depth of flavor to so many dishes, and a little goes a long way. It’s a great staple to keep in the cupboard, and you’ll find yourself using it often to add a smoky flavor to your favorite recipes.
Preparation
Equipment
Blender
Measuring cups
Method
Add the milk and fruit to the blender.
Blend for 10 seconds, pause and give it another 10-15 second blitz to make sure you’ve mixed all of the fruit thoroughly.
* Superfood Tip *
For even more plant-powered goodness, why not sprinkle a selection of powders into your smoothies for extra goodness? Simply add 1 rounded tsp before you blend:
Maca
Ground linseed
Chia seeds
Baobab
Acai
Lucuma
Did you like this recipe? Try this berry blast smoothie to brighten up your breakfasts!
Preparation
First you will have to create each layer. Do it the night before to save time and also to allow each layer set nicely
Method
Chia layer: 2 tbsp of chia seeds, 3/4 cup of coconut or any other plant based milk. Mix all together and pop  in the fridge. After 15 min take it out and stir to avoid lumps. Put back in the fridge to set overnight.
Mango layer: Just simply cut up your mango into small pieces and blend with your blender.
Chocolate layer: 1/3 cup of oats, 1 tbsp of raw cacao , 3/4 cup of plant based milk and little bit of maple syrup. Mix it all together and put in the fridge to set overnight.
Dragon fruit layer: Simply cut up your dragon fruit and blend with your blender. If you don’t have dragon fruit you can use any other fruit such as pineapple, pear or even apple.
Kiwi layer: Peel your kiwi and blend with your blender.
In the morning pour each of the layers in to a glass very carefully, I used a small spoon. This way you will avoid mixing all layers together. Top up with gojiberries, desiccated coconut, or hemp seeds.
Preparation
If making for next day lunch, let the tempeh marinate overnight.
Method
Preheat the oven to 190/370deg.
Slice the tempeh into 1/4-inch-thick pieces and set aside.
In a small bowl, combine the sesame oil, shoyu, hot sauce, (if using) garlic cloves, ginger and juice from one lemon. Whisk to combine and transfer to a large, zip-closed plastic bag.
Place the sliced tempeh in the bag and gently massage it with your hands to coat all the pieces. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Remove the tempeh from the marinade. Grill for 10 minutes, turning half way until crisp and golden.
Serve on granary bread spread with vegan mayonnaise, add shredded lettuce, cucumber, tomato slices, avocado slices, place two pieces of the crispy tempeh and top with some onion relish.
This also makes great ‘bento’ lunches, delicious to eat cold the following day.
Method
Pour the vegetable stock into a large pan and add the garlic, chilli, vegetables, sherry and soy sauce.
Bring to boiling, then turn the heat down and simmer gently for 10 minutes.
Add the cubed tofu, miso paste and noodles and cook until the noodles are cooked according to package instructions.
Season with soy sauce if necessary.
Ladle the broth into bowls, garnish with shredded spring onions and extra slices of chilli.
Method
Heat the olive oil in a sauté pan over a medium heat. Add the shallot and sauté for 3 minutes.
Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute.
Add the plain flour, stir well to coat and cook for 1 minute.
Slowly add the soy milk to the pan whisking to avoid lumps. Bring to the boil and reduce to sauce consistency. Lower the heat and add the Quorn Smoky Vegan Ham, stirring gently to warm through.
Set to one side, season to taste with salt and pepper and add the chopped parsley.
Cook the spaghetti as per pack instructions, drain and add to the sauce tossing to coat.
Divide into warmed serving bowls and garnish with extra flat leaf parsley.
Did you enjoy this dish? Try this vegan low-carb carbonara. 
Preparation
Soak the nuts overnight.
Method
Blend the mayonnaise ingredients and pour into the bowl.
That’s it!
Preparation
If you’re not able to find this variety of aubergine in your local shop, substitute with two regular aubergines sliced in half and cook for a little longer.
Note: I don’t often cook with extra virgin olive oil – I think it’s better for dressings or for dipping with bread- but the aubergines in this recipe really soak up the flavour, so I think it’s worthwhile.
For this recipe, use a good non-stick roasting tray, or line a tray with parchment paper.
Method
Heat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
Slice off the stalk end from each aubergine and then slice each one in half lengthways.
Add the minced garlic, lemon juice, olive oil and oregano to the tray and give it all a good stir, spreading it evenly across the surface.
Arrange the aubergine halves on the tray, flesh-side down, ensuring all have a good coating of the oil mixture.
Cook for 25 minutes. When you remove them after this time the skins should be slightly wrinkly.
Turn each half over, cover the tray with tin foil and return to cook for a further 20-25 minutes.
The aubergines are just right when they’re starting to dissolve slightly, but still hold their shape.
I love to eat this dish with a fresh tomato, red onion, olive and basil salad and some lovely bread to soak up the juices. You could even scoop out the flesh and mash it together to create a ready-made baba ghanoush!
Method
Moroccan Lentil, Chickpea and Kale Soup. A hearty vegan soup, packed full of protein.
I’m a bit of a chuck-it-in-and-taste as I go kind of girl, so please forgive the lack of ‘absoluteness’ with this recipe. But this really is a soup you will make your own, so adapt the flavours to suit your own tastes. I like spicy food, so maybe go easy on the cayenne for the first run…
Put some olive oil in a pan and get it on a low heat
Chop up your onion and chuck in the pan
Chop/mince up your garlic and ginger and add to the pan
Add the cumin and cayenne and stir well
Wash your lemon and chop into fairly chunky slices – I pretty much use the entire lemon as I just love the flavour, but you may want to use three slices to begin with – and add to the pan
Add the finely chopped sundried tomatoes and mix in
In a separate bowl, wash your lentils and drain – set aside
In a colander, empty 1 tin of chickpeas and wash well
Add the lentils to the pan and mix well
Add the chickpeas to the pan and mix well
Cut your cherry tomatoes into quarters and add to the mix
Open a can of chopped tomatoes and pour into the pan – mix well
In order to get out the remaining tomato/juice from the can, fill with cold water and pour into the pan (roughly 1 cup of water)
Add enough water to the kettle for two more cups and switch on
Mix up your veggie stock and add to the pan
Mix well and cover with lid, leave covered for approximately 10 minutes (this gives you time to tidy/wash up what you’ve used so far)
Put kale in colander and wash. Leave on side, ready for later
The soup needs about 20/30 mins to thicken (lid off), and needs stirring every now and then. It should be simmering hot, but not boiling
When you are happy that it’s pretty much ready, roughly chop your kale and add to the soup
Simmer for an additional 5 minutes or so and then your soup is ready to serve
Add pepper to taste or for garnish
Dig in!
This is lovely served with Marmite and Violife cheese on hot/toasted ciabatta, and makes a delicious filling lunch the next day. Packed with flavour, protein and goodness, this is a soup I make as soon as I feel the hint of a sniffle… Add extra cayenne, garlic and ginger to blast that cold right away!
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Peel and chop the bananas into thick slices
Lay flat on a tray or plate, and place in freezer for at least two hours
Just before the two hours is up, melt some chocolate in a pan, and crush/chop your nuts
Put frozen banana slices in a blender and whizz  – you will need to stop and give it a stir with a spoon/break up bananas a few times, as it takes a while for them to stop being more than just icy slices
Almost suddenly it will become creamy like ice cream… If you’re not seeing this, add a dash or two of plant milk and blend until it does
This is best served almost immediately, so spoon into bowls, pour on melted chocolate, sprinkle on the nuts, and serve
Enjoy!
If you loved this recipe, there are hundreds more when you sign up to Veganuary. We’ll send you our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutrition planners, budget cookbooks, recipes and more straight to your inbox. Oh, and it’s 100% free!
Method
Before you go to bed mix all the ingredients together in a nice big jar (I use a Kilner jar as these have plenty of space for fruit and seal well).
Pop the jar into the fridge and leave it to do its thing while you get your beauty sleep.
In the morning layer up your beautiful dark cherry compote and your favourite yogurt (I used cherry Alpro) on top of the oats. If you are short of time pop the lid back on your jar and run for the bus, or take your time and enjoy with a cup of good coffee.
Method
Grate the apple and cook it on a low heat until it forms a smooth paste with few lumps.
Mix the flour with the salt in a large bowl.
Add the apple sauce to the bowl, add the soya milk, half a cup at a time, and whisk until a smooth batter is formed.
Add half a cup of the batter mix to a hot oiled frying pan, and cook until the bubbles on the surface of the pancake do not close when they pop.
Flip the pancake and cook until there is some colour on the bottom.
Once the pancakes are cooked, pan fry a small handful of blueberries and a banana sliced lengthwise. Top the pancakes with the pan-fried fruit and some vegan yogurt/custard.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C/gas mark 6.
Scrub the sweet potatoes under cold water and cut each into 6 wedges.
Tip into a roasting tin, drizzle with 2 tablespoons of olive oil, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, and roast in the oven for about 20–25 minutes or until the sweet potato is tender and starting to caramelize at the edges.
Add the pumpkin seeds to the pan for the last 5 minutes of cooking time.
While the sweet potato is cooking prepare the couscous.
Heat 2 tablespoons olive oil in a large sauté pan, add the couscous and cook gently for 2–3 minutes until starting to brown.
Add half of the stock or water to the pan and continue to cook for about 15 minutes, stirring frequently until the couscous is tender and has absorbed the liquid.
Add the remaining stock or water to the pan as and when needed.
Add the raisins, za’tar and chopped pistachios to the pan, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and cool slightly.
Mix together the juice from half the lemon and the extra virgin olive oil and pour over the warm sweet potato when it comes out of the oven.
Gently stir the freshly chopped herbs and roasted sweet potato wedges into the couscous and serve with extra lemon wedges for squeezing over.
Preparation
Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil, add the pasta and cook according to the packet instructions.
Meanwhile, warm the oil on a medium-high heat in a large frying pan. Add the Seabloom ‘Tuna Free’ Flakes (straight from frozen), cherry tomatoes, olives and capers and stir for a minute or so.
Add a splash of pasta water, put the lid on the pan and cook for a further 3-4 minutes until the tomatoes cook down a little and the Seabloom ‘Tuna Free’ Flakes are completely defrosted and warmed through.
Season to taste and keep on a very low heat until ready to serve.
When the pasta is al dente, add another splash of cooking liquid, ¾ of the parsley and the drained pasta to the tomato sauce and stir to ensure the pasta is fully coated.
Serve immediately with a squeeze of lemon juice and a sprinkling of the remaining parsley.
Method
Preheat oven to 180º C /360 ºF / Gas Mark 4.
Heat the olive oil in a medium pan over a low/medium heat. Add onion and garlic, sauté until onion is translucent. Add coriander and cumin.
Cook for two minutes stirring constantly adding a little water if the pan seems dry.
Add the spinach, black beans, soy sauce and mashed sweet potatoes. Cook for 3-5 minutes. Remove from heat and season with sea salt.
Place ¼ cup of mixture in centre of tortilla. Roll into a burrito and place in a non-stick baking dish.
Once all the burritos are assembled, pour your favourite salsa on top and cover with aluminium foil.
Bake for 25 minutes.
Remove and sprinkle with melty vegan cheese and return to over for 2-5 minutes (until the cheese is melted).
Garnish with sliced spring onions and serve!
Mild Homemade Salsa:
If you do not like things hot (or even warm for that matter!), this is the perfect salsa. You can build your tolerance to greater heat levels if you so desire. Just start with a very little bit of hot pepper.
8 fresh vine ripe tomatoes, chopped
½ cup fresh coriander, chopped
2 onions, chopped
1 bell pepper, yellow, orange or red
½ tsp seal salt
1 lime, juiced
Combine all the chopped ingredients into a bowl stir lightly. Squeeze the lime juice over the homemade salsa.  If you prefer, you can use a stick blender and create a less chunky salsa. This flavourful, mild homemade salsa can be served immediately, but its flavour will be enhanced if you let the tastes develop overnight in the fridge.
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary and try vegan today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
A blender is required for preparing the “egg whites” and a food processor is recommended for the “yolk filling”. You will also need an 8” square baking pan and 1 block (14 oz) of extra-firm water-packed tofu. If you have chocolate egg molds, or a heat-proof container that specifically holds deviled eggs, the “egg white” mixture can be poured into the molds to create perfect, halved hard-boiled egg shapes. This recipe yields 16 to 24 bedeviled eggless eggs, or more depending upon the mold(s) used for the “egg whites”.
Method
Drain and press the tofu until it is not releasing any more liquid – this is very important! After pressing you will have approximately 12 oz of tofu. Slice ⅓ of the tofu to use for the “egg whites. The remaining ⅔ will be used for the “yolk” filling.
To prepare the “egg whites”, place the “egg white” ingredients into a blender and process until smooth. Pour the mixture into a saucepan and bring to rapid simmer over medium heat, stirring frequently to avoid scorching the tofu mixture. Pour the mixture into the 8” baking pan and set aside to cool. If you have chocolate egg molds, or a heat-proof container that specifically holds deviled eggs, pour the tofu mixture directly into the molds and set aside to cool.
Next, crumble the ⅔ block of pressed tofu into the food processor and add the remaining “yolk” filling ingredients. Process the contents until completely smooth, stopping as necessary to scrape down the sides of the food processor. Alternately, the mixture can be mashed using a fork or a potato masher/ricer, but the mixture will not be as smooth.
Transfer the “yolk” mixture to a bowl or food storage container, season with additional kala namak if desired, cover and refrigerate until ready to use. Cover the baking pan with plastic wrap or foil and refrigerate until the “egg whites” have completely set, or a minimum of 30 minutes.
Now, run a table knife around the perimeter of the baking pan to loosen the “egg white” (or simply pop them out of the chocolate egg molds). Invert the baking pan onto a clean work surface. At this point, the “egg white” can be cut into rectangles or cut into rounds or ovals.
For rectangles, cut the “egg whites” into 6 even strips. Turn your cutting surface and make 4 even slices. This will create 24 rectangles. For rounds or ovals, use a 1 and ½-inch to 1 and ¾-inch cookie cutter or ring mold. Any “egg white” remnants can be finely diced and mixed with any of the leftover “yolk” filling for a quick eggless egg salad sandwich.
Spoon a generous teaspoonful of the “yolk” mixture onto the top of each “egg white”. Alternately, the mixture can be decoratively piped onto the “egg whites” using a pastry bag. If you don’t have a pastry bag, try placing the mixture into a zip-lock bag, seal and then snip off a tiny piece from the bottom corner of the bag with scissors. Squeeze the bag to pipe the mixture onto the “egg whites”.
Sprinkle with paprika and garnish with optional ingredients as desired. Cover gently with plastic wrap and chill thoroughly before serving.
Method
If baking the burgers, preheat the oven to 160ºC (350ºF) and grease a baking sheet with a little spray coconut oil
Put the red pepper, red onion chunks, garlic cloves and sun-dried tomatoes in a blender or food processor. Whizz to combine
Tip out the tomato and pepper contents into a large mixing bowl
Place the cashews, pumpkin seeds, goji berries into a blender or food processor along with the spices and whizz to form a grainy texture (allow for some gritty bits to add texture to the burgers)
Tip into the bowl containing the tomato-pepper mixture
Put the drained black beans, fresh coriander, tamari, lime juice, chilli flakes, cumin and coriander into the blender or food processor and whizz to form a paste
Add to the bowl containing the chopped tomatoes, peppers and onions. Add the oats or gram flour, milled chia seeds and protein powder. Mix well together. Season well
Using your hands, form the mixture into 6 burger patties. Place patties on the baking sheet
Bake for 25 mins. Alternatively, you can pan-fry the burgers for 13-15 mins (flipping over half way through)
Method
Break cauliflower into florets and boil in a pan of water for approx. 10 minutes
In another saucepan, put the Bechamel on a low heat, and add a very large scoop of flora, a cup of almond milk and lots of salt and pepper
As the mixture melts together, grate in the block of Violife and stir – not until it’s totally melted – leave a few chunky bits!
Put the cauliflower into an oven proof dish, pour the cheesy mixture over the top
Bake for about 20 minutes at 180, and then grill for a further 5 minutes for a crispy top
E voila!
Method
Drain and rinse chickpeas, place in a mixing bowl.
Use the back of a fork or a masher to mash chickpeas to desired consistency. We leave ours slightly chunky.
Add remaining ingredients and mix well.
Add salt and pepper to taste.
You are now ready to make your sandwich.
Place lettuce onto a slice of bread and scoop a large serving of chickpea tuna on top.
Add tomatoes, avocado and any other desired ingredients and top with a second slice of bread.
Method
Add all the dry ingredients to a large bowl and mix well with a fork before making a well in the centre.
Add the cider vinegar, soya sauce, liquid smoke, tomato paste, and a little of the stock. Different brands of wheat gluten need different amounts of stock so be cautious at first. You can always add but you can’t take away.
Mix well with a wooden spoon, adding a little stock as you go until it comes together. You want it to be moist but it requires kneading too so it can’t be too wet. If you add too much stock, you can always add more wheat gluten.
Once it has all come together, knead the dough for 5 minutes. You should start to see some stringy bits forming. That is the gluten developing.
Once you have done that, divide out the dough in to equal portions. This should make 4 but you can do more or less, depending on how big you want them to be.
Roll each piece in to a rough sausage shape and then wrap in tin foil and fold or twist the ends shut. I usually lightly oil the tin foil, just in case they stick. Make sure you go around the sausage a couple of times otherwise they can burst. You don’t have to do it too tightly, the sausage will expand to fill the space.
Once you have them all rolled up, put them in a steamer for 45 mins. If you made lots of thin sausages, 35 – 40 mins should be fine. If you made really large sausages then you want to be more like 55 – 60 mins. I turned mine over halfway through the steaming as well.
Once they have steamed, let them cool without opening the packages. Put them in the fridge where they will become more solid over a few hours. They last a week or two in the fridge if you don’t open them.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Simply warm your pitta in the oven or grill for a minute or so, and if you desire pop the falafels in as they do taste amazing when warmed sitting on a bed of delicious hummus.
To assemble simply spread a thick layer of hummus on the warmed pitta, and stuff with salad greens and a few falafel.
Add some grated carrots, cherry tomatoes and some beetroot coleslaw for a fantastically easy sandwich.
Preparation
Makes one big pan.
Let the beans soak overnight.
Method
Soak the beans overnight.
Put the beans in a large saucepan and cover with cold water. Approximately 2 inches above the beans. Add the two cloves of garlic.
Bring the beans to the boil, then simmer for about 30 minutes. Keep an eye on them and remove any scum from the top of the water.
After they’ve had 30 minutes strain the beans removing the water, then return to the pan. Pour over some boiling water until they are just covered. Add the seasoning, oregano, and tomatoes. Let them simmer again until they are lovely and soft and the water has nearly evaporated.
To serve, pour a very generous amount of olive oil over them.
Preparation
Serves 4-5
Use individual ramekins (little oven-proof dishes)
Read the recipe carefully before you start – especially the sauce and lemon juice/hot water part at the end – then get everything weighed out and ready. Now go, you vegan chef…
Method
Preheat oven to 180ºC/350ºF/Gas Mark 4 – you will need to put it on for at least 10 minutes to make sure the oven is properly hot before you mix together the pudding batter. If using a fan-assisted oven, reduce the heat by about 10-15 degrees.
Put kettle on to boil.
Lightly oil 6 oven-proof ramekin dishes (the white ones are usually fine).
In a medium bowl, mix together the dry ingredients.
In a jug or smaller bowl, whisk together the wet batter ingredients then add to the dry batter ingredients and mix well.
Place in the ramekins.
Make the dry sauce by first whisking together the flour and sugar. Sprinkle this DRY mixture quickly and evenly over the batter in each ramekin.
Now very quickly make the wet sauce: mix the lemon/lime juice with the boiling water and pour evenly over each ramekin. Yes, really! DO NOT STIR.
Bake for 20-25 minutes until the tops are golden and the puddings are still slightly gooey inside – test with a toothpick. If using a fan-assisted oven, check after 15 minutes. If too gooey, return to the oven for another 5-10 minutes until done.
Preparation
In a pot, heat the milk and oil, leaving them at room temperature, 90º F or so.
Put this mixture in a large bowl and sprinkle the yeast and sugar on top. Leave for 5 minutes or until you see the yeast activate.
Add the flour and beat in the mixer with the dough hook for a minute and a half or so.
Cover the dough with a damp cloth or plastic wrap and leave for an hour or until it is twice the size.
When it’s done, add the baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Mix super well until everything is fully integrated.
Roll out the dough until it is about half a centimeter. Add the melted vegan oil or butter.
In a separate bowl mix the brown sugar and cinnamon; sprinkle it on top of the rolled dough.
Roll the dough until you have a log left. Cut it into pieces of roughly equal thickness. And put them well apart on a baking sheet.
Let them rise a second time, 20 to 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350ºF (180ºC).
Bake for 20 minutes or until the top is golden brown. In the meantime make the icing, mix the mixture very well. Bathe them when they come out of the oven.
Preparation
Make the main sauce:
Chop the cauliflower and cook in a large saucepan (with lid) along with the coconut milk (no water). Bring to the boil and then turn down to a simmer.
Take the cardamom seeds out of the pods and chop them with a knife. Chop or crush them as finely as you can (within reason) to unleash their flavour. Toss in the pan.
Peel and crush the garlic cloves and add to the pan along with the salt. Note: If you are using the oven at the same time, roast the garlic first to really bring out the flavour (it’s not essential at all, but it does add a bit of culinary magic if you can).
Simmer for 20 minutes or until you can easily pierce the cauliflower with a fork. Then blend everything together until creamy, using a jug blender or hand blender.
Pour over pasta or noodles and enjoy.
Method
Alternative version 1: “Roasted Pepper & Garlic Sauce”
Leave out cardamom from the original recipe.
Use 1 sweet pepper and 3 cloves of garlic.
Roast the sweet pepper and garlic in a hot oven… To do this, keep the garlic in its skin and place on an oven tray along with the pepper and place in a pre-heated oven (gas mark 7/425°C/220°F should work fine). Roast garlic for up to 10 minutes and the pepper for about 15-20 minutes (or until the pepper is easy to pierce). No need to let the pepper char.
It’s best to wait until the garlic cools down a little before you pop it out of it’s skin. Gently chop off the top; then squeeze out the fleshy garlic and place in a jug ready to blend with everything else.
Blend in the pepper and garlic with the original recipe and enjoy either creamy smooth or rustic.
Alternative version 2: “Mushroom Sauce”
Sautee 200g of mushrooms and one medium sized onion in coconut oil and then add to the blended sauce for a chunky mushroom sauce or delicious soup.
Alternative version 3: “Scheezy Sauce”
Add two heaped tablespoons of nutritional yeast extract for a scheezy sauce.
Alternative version 4: “Super Easy Stock Cube Sauce”
Leave out the cardamom and sea salt and add a couple of vegan stock cubes for a super easy immediate infusion of flavour.
Alternative version 5: “Totally Coconut Sauce”
Add up to 100g of creamed coconut block or up to 200g of coconut cream to the mix before blending – for a sensational infusion of coconut.
Method
Preheat Oven to 350 degrees F or 180 C.
In a mixing bowl, add  Flour, Baking Soda, Baking Powder, Cinnamon Powder and Nutmeg Powder. Mix well.
Add Yogurt, Brown Sugar, Sugar and Vanilla. Mix until sugar dissolves.
Add Flaxseed Mixture and mix with melted margarine.
Add Carrots, Walnuts . Mix well.
Lightly grease the bottoms and sides of 2 9 inch cake pans, and dust with flour or line with paper. A 9×13 inch rectangle pan can also be used.
Evenly divide the batter into the 2 cake pans and smooth the top.
Bake for 30 minutes at 350F/180C.
Remove from oven and allow the cakes to cool in the pan for 5 minutes.
Flip them out onto waxed or parchment paper and allow them to cool completely before frosting. If you do not wish to frost the cake, you can enjoy it immediately.
Beat margarine,Cream Cheese and Vanilla until smooth. Add Sugar and beat until smooth.
Place one cake (face down) on a platter.
Lightly frost only the top of the cake.
Place second cake (face down) over the first cake and frost top and sides if you wish.
Sprinkle a few chopped walnut pieces over the top to garnish.
Tastes best at room temperature or warmed for few seconds in the microwave.
Like this recipe? Sign up to try Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Sauté off the onions, chillies, and garlic in a glug of the oil.
Add 3 teaspoons of the spices to the mixture and mix well.
Add the chickpeas, chopped tomatoes, 1 teaspoon of vegetable stock powder.
Allow the mixture to simmer for a while until the chickpeas have softened enough to eat then remove from the heat.
In the meantime, cook the quinoa in a rice cooker or flat-bottomed pan with the 250ml of water, remaining vegetable stock, and spices.
Once all the ingredients are cooled, add them to a food processor and blend.  You may need to do this in batches depending on the size of your food processor.  If you do, try to make sure there’s an equal amount of each ingredient in each batch.
Once the mixture has blended, add the flour, a tablespoon at a time and mix, keep going until you reach a consistency that is still fairly moist but firm enough that it will hold its shape when shaped and handled gently.
With some of the flour in a bowl, and begin making the mixture into balls and coating them in the flour before squashing them into burger patty shapes.  How big is up to you – judge it based on the size you want.
Heat up about 2-3 inches of vegetable oil in a wok, to test the temperature is right, drop a small amount of mixture into the pan and if it bubbles, it’s ready to cook the burgers.
Cook the burgers for 5-10 minutes, until a lovely golden brown colour, then transfer them to a plate with some kitchen roll to drain the excess oil.
Serve in burger buns with whatever garnish you fancy and some yummy potato wedges or chips.  I love them with red onions, grated courgette and chilli jam.  Mmmmmm!
Method
Mix the flour, baking soda, salt and Provamel Coconut almond drink, orange juice, oil and vanilla to a homogenous mass.
Heat the waffle iron and grease it with some oil.
Bake the waffles until they are golden brown.
Serve with fruit and maple syrup.
Method
Preheat the oven to 190c. Grease a 20x26cm baking dish or cake tin.
To Make the Crumble
Place all the crumble ingredients in a medium bowl. Using a pastry cutter or two knives, chop everything together until you have a lumpy, crumbly texture. If you like your crumble much finer, rub the mixture between your fingertips to break up the lumps of butter. Set aside.
To Make the Cake
In a small bowl mix together the psyllium husks and water. If using ground flax/linseeds instead, use 1 tablespoon of seeds and 2 tablespoons of water instead.
In a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, and fine sea salt. Whisk well to combine. Set aside.
In a separate medium bowl, place the vegan butter. Using a stand mixer or a hand mixer, beat the butter for a minute or until smooth and light. Add the thickened psyllium husks, sugars, vanilla, and lemon zest and beat again to combine. Note that psyllium husks like to clump together, so be sure to beat until smooth.
Alternating between the soy yoghurt and the flour mixture, add a few spoonfuls at a time, beating to combine between each addition. Once fully combined, add the soy milk and beat for a final time. You should now have a thick cake batter.
Add ¾ of the blueberries and very gently fold them into the batter. Transfer the batter to the prepared baking tray or cake tin and spread smooth with the back of a spoon. Top with the remaining blueberries.
Finally, top the cake with the crumble topping and place in the preheated oven for 30-35 minutes or until puffed in the centre and the crumble is browned nicely.
Remove once baked and allow to cool fully on a wire cooling rack before slicing and serving.
For tips on baking without eggs and dairy, check out our vegan baking guide.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Preheat or light a barbecue (or place a griddle pan over a high heat).
Remove the outer husk leaves of the cobs so only 1 layer remains. Pull out the silk threads.
Place the corn in a pan of boiling water for 5 minutes until tender. Drain well.
Peel back the husks, spray the corn lightly with oil, then rub with the spices.
Barbecue or griddle for 10 minutes, turning regularly, until tender and a little charred.
Serve with lime wedges for rubbing over
Recipes and images courtesy of Waitrose & Partners
Preparation
Toast the bread 
Peel, stone and mash the avocado flesh with the lemon juice 
Add the Alpro Plain soya alternative to Greek Style yogurt and chilli flakes, season to taste and stir until everything’s well mixed 
Spread the avocado chilli mix on the toast, sprinkled with some extra chilli flakes, if you like it hot!  
Method
Stone and halve the cherries, place in a heavy bottomed pan and stir in the sugar.
Leave for half an hour to let the sugar draw the juices.
Add the vanilla extract and place the pan on a medium heat, stir from time to time.  When the fruit has softened take off the heat and leave to cool before storing in the fridge.
Perfect with plenty of vanilla soya yogurt as a quick pudding, or with chocolate overnight oats as a decadent breakfast.
Method
First, place a tablespoon of oil into a large pot and a sprinkle of salt; this will prevent sticking. Then, toss in the onion and garlic and cook on medium heat until the onions have softened (approximately 8-10 minutes). Whilst the onions and garlic are softening, cook the quinoa as per the instructions on the packet and set aside for later.
Once the onions have softened and the garlic is fragrant, cover them with the chili powder and cumin and stir in and continue cooking for 2-3 minutes until all of the moisture in the pot has evaporated (if you prefer adding more cumin/chili powder you can do so to your own taste). At this point stir in the tomato paste, broth and carrots, and simmer for 5-6 minutes to amalgamate the flavors.
Once the mixture has been brought to a simmer, stir in the pumpkin, then the beans and bring the chili to a boil. Once at a boil, reduce the heat and stir the beans until covered and cook them until cooked through (10-15 minutes). Once cooked, add the corn and quinoa to the chili last minute to heat through.
 Serve immediately with a small dollop of your favorite vegan sour cream and a few chopped pieces of spring onion.
By Allison Bailey
Method
First make the flax egg. Mix the 3 Tbsp. ground flaxseed with 9 Tbsp water and beat together. Let sit for 15 minutes. Preheat the oven to 160 °C/Gas 3. Beat the flax egg mixture, coconut sugar, vanilla and oil until light and well combined. Add the ground almonds, coconut, cinnamon and nutmeg, and stir until just combined. Then add the grated carrot and chopped nuts, and mix until well combined. Line a 23cm spring-form tin with baking paper and spray the sides with non-stick baking spray or oil. Spoon the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 45 minutes to 1 hour, until a toothpick inserted in the cake comes out clean. Allow the cake to cool in the tin for about 10 minutes, then loosen the edges with a knife and remove from the tin to cool. When totally cool, prepare the icing (see below) and spread thickly all over the cake.
To make the icing, drain and rinse the soaked cashew nuts. Combine all the ingredients in a high-speed blender or food processor, and blend until smooth and creamy. You may need to scrape the mixture down and pulse a few times to achieve the desired consistency. Remove from the blender and set aside. Spread over the carrot cake once it has completely cooled.
Method
Put the coconut oil in a wok
Add the chopped chillies and the aniseed star
After a minute or so, add the carrots, pak choi, baby corn, mange tout and broccoli
Put the lid on and let it cook on a high heat for a about 3 minutes
Add some soy sauce and mix
Cook for a minute or so and then add the noodles
Mix again and cook with the lid on for a minute or two on a high heat setting then serve
Preparation
1. Boil a kettle full of water.
2. Measure out and prepare all the ingredients.
3. Preheat oven to 200°C (Gas Mark 6, 400°F).
4. Add 300ml boiling water to say mince.
5. Add 5 tablespoons cold water to ground flax seeds.
6. Make meatballs by completing steps A, B and C.
A – Place the lentils in a bowl and mash with a fork 
or potato masher.
B – Add the rest of the meatball ingredients to the 
bowl and mix thoroughly.
C – With wet hands, shape the mixture into roughly 
20 even sized balls and place on a baking tray lined 
with oiled baking paper.
7. Bake meatballs in the oven at 200°C (Gas Mark 6, 400°F), for 20 minutes.
8. Start making the sauce by gently frying the onion and garlic in a saucepan with a splash of olive oil.
9. To finish making the sauce, fry the onions and garlic until translucent, add the balsamic vinegar and red wine and allow to bubble and reduce for a few minutes. Add remaining sauce ingredients.
10. Add pre-boiled water to saucepan with a pinch of salt – cook pasta for 8 mins (check pasta pack for exact cooking time).
11. Drain pasta and toss with a little olive oil.
12. To serve, top a portion of pasta with sauce and meatballs, sprinkle with vegan parmesan.
Method
Grill the Beyond patty, 3 minutes on each side.
Squeeze garlic mayo on top bun, and tomato ketchup on bottom bun.
Place pickled red onions on top bun, and bib lettuce on bottom bun.
Place the cooked Beyond Meat patty with the vegan cheddar ‘cheese’ slice under the grill until the ‘cheese’ has melted.
Place Beyond patty on lettuce.
Top with bun.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan BBQ recipes.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
You can use gravy granules or make your own. I always make my own and you can find out how in my Vegan Roast Dinner recipe.
Method
If making your own gravy, you probably want to get started on that first. If using granules you can start on that about the same time as the broccoli
Wash and chop your potatoes (I always leave the skins on, even for mash, as there’s so much goodness there!), and add to a pan of water
Bring to boil and then keep on a medium heat until the potatoes are nice and soft
In the meantime, cook the sausages according to the instructions on the packet
Wash and cut your broccoli into florets and add to a pan of hot water. I like my broccoli crunchy and bright green so I only cook mine in boiling water for a few minutes before draining and serving
Drain your potatoes and mash with a little vegan marge, a little salt and heaps of cracked pepper
Plate up, pour over gravy and eat immediately!
Preparation
Pre-heat the oven to 350f / 185c / Gas Mark 5
Method
Mix up the two flax “eggs” by adding the ground flax to the water and set to one side.
Combine the wholewheat flour, self-raising flour, baking powder and granulated sugar in a bowl.
Mash the bananas and to this add your plant-based milk of choice oil, vanilla and two flax “eggs”. Stir well to combine all of the ingredients.
Make a well in the centre of your dry ingredients, add the wet and mix together until they are just to say combined. Don’t over-mix as you will rid the batter of air and give it less of a rise when baking.
Spoon your mixture into the muffin cases and bake for 18-22 minutes.
Before putting them into the oven, you might like to sprinkle a little more ground flax over the top but it’s not essential.
You will know they’re done when you insert a toothpick and it comes out dry. Once there is no batter on the toothpick, remove from the oven as over-baking will lead to dried out muffins.
These will keep for 3-4 days in an airtight container or you can individually freeze them once completely cooled. Individual freezing is a great method for those who struggle to make time for breakfast as you can take one out of the freezer and place it into the fridge the day before and it’s ready to grab the next morning.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Heat the oil in a large flat-bottomed pan, then add the celery, onion, and carrots
Once the veg has started to soften, add the garlic, turning the heat to medium
Once the garlic is beginning to cook, but before it goes brown, add the maple syrup/sugar and stir, ensuring all ingredients are well coated
Allow to simmer for a minute or so, until the vegetables begin to caramelise
Add the yeast extract and mix again to ensure even coating
If at any point you find the pan is browning, add a small splash of water to prevent burning
Add the flour & vegetable bouillon, stir to make sure everything is coated evenly
Add the wine or balsamic vinegar and mix well
Once the wine/vinegar has heated up, add the water, stirring continually as you do
Bring to the boil, stirring regularly
Stir in the tomato puree
Allow to simmer for 15 minutes or so, until the mixture thickens and the gravy reduces to your desired consistency
Once you’ve achieved your desired consistency and flavour, sieve into a fresh pan and warm just before you serve the remainder of your meal
Tips: 
If you don’t have yeast extract, you can try substituting with nutritional yeast and/or soy sauce
For a bit of variety, try adding different herbs, such as sage, or bay leaves
Try adding mushrooms or a little chopped beetroot when you’re adding the veg for a slightly more earthy flavour, the beetroot also gives the gravy a lovely deep colour to it
If you want to get all the flavour when sieving, feel free to pour a little freshly boiled water over the remaining mixture, then reduce down as needed
Preparation
Cook meatless meatballs in tomato sauce according to package directions.
Meanwhile, blend buttery spread, garlic and herbs in small bowl. Evenly spread on bread. Arrange on baking sheet and broil until lightly toasted
Divide prepared pasta between 4 plates. Evenly top with meatless meatballs and sauce from skillet. Serve with garlic toasts.
Method
Place 75g stoned dates, 75g dried apricots, 50g seedless raisins and 2 tablespoons apple juice in a food processor or blender and work together until smooth, scraping down the sides as necessary.
Form the mixture into balls the size of a cherry, then roll them in 50g chopped and browned almonds until completely coated.
Love recipes like this? Want more? Sign up to Veganuary for delicious recipes, our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, and more. Don’t forget, it’s all 100% free!
Recipe from The Meat Free Monday Cookbook. Foreword by Paul, Mary and Stella McCartney. Published by Kyle Books.  Photography by Tara Fisher.
Method
Preheat oven to 180° C, 160° C fan, Gas mark 4.
Add lemon juice to soya milk and set aside.
Cream together Flora and sugar for 2-3 minutes.
Sieve together the self-raising flour, baking powder and mixed spice.
Gradually mix the soya milk into the flour mixture until it’s smooth.
Stir in the grated carrots and sultanas and blend well.
Pour into a greased and lined 900g (2 lb) loaf tin and bake in preheated oven for 1-1 ¼ hours.
Check to see if your cake is cooked by inserting a skewer into the centre.
If it comes out clean, allow to cool for 5 minutes in the tin before turning out and cooling on a wire tray.
Meanwhile, to make the icing beat together all ingredients until smooth.
When the cake has cooled spread the icing over the top of the cake. Cut into generous slices to serve.
Preparation
Serves 6.
Method
Blitz the oats in a food processor into a fine powder (leave some aside to add in later for texture)
Add the banana, almond butter and maple syrup and pulse
Add the rest of the ingredients (including rest of oats), and drizzle in almond milk while blending until the mixture comes together
Roll into balls (make sure the mixture is gooey and not too wet)
Thanks to Lauren of Powered By Peanut Butter for contributing this recipe!
Preparation
Serves 8
Place cashews in a bowl, cover with water and leave to soak for 4h to overnight.
Method
When ready to make the cake, line the base of a 20cm / 8 inch springform tin with parchment paper.
Blitz the oreos into a food processor until you have thin crumbs. Add butter and mix so the biscuit mixture holds together.
Press the oreo paste at the bottom of the springform tin.
Drain cashews. Place them in a food processor with Grand Marnier, agave syrup and juice of 4 oranges. Blitz until smooth.
Blend 1 orange zest into the cashew cream. Pour into the springform tin.
Place cheesecake in the freezer for 4 hours or overnight.
Before serving leave at room temperature for 30 mins. Decorate with fresh orange slices on top.
(Make sure you return it to the freezer if you do not eat it all at once.)
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Makes 8.
Preheat the oven to 180C.
Method
Cream the sugar and margarine together in a large mixing bowl. Stir in the puréed chickpea followed by the flax eggs until well combined (though don’t worry if it separates slightly once you add the flax, that’s fine).
Next sieve in the flour, folding it in as you go. Finally stir in the chopped chocolate.
Grease a deep tin or oven-proof dish (glass or ceramic are fine) and pour the mixture in, spreading evenly. Place in the oven and bake for around 45 minutes; the exact cooking time will depend on your oven.
Once cooked, remove from the oven and leave to cool for around five minutes. After this time you can slice the blondies and move to a wire cooling rack or kitchen roll to cool fully.
To prepare the topping, melt the chocolate in a bain-marie (a glass bowl over a pan of shallow boiling water), stirring until it is smooth and glossy. Using a fork, drizzle the melted chocolate over the blondies and leave to set.
Serve warm or cold.
Method
Assemble sandwich
Eat!
Preparation
tibits at home: stylish vegetarian cuisine is a sumptuous cookbook, split into four seasonal sections, containing 50 recipes that will delight all loyal tibits fans, as well as those who are new to the brand. 80 per cent of tibits’ menu is vegan and many of the recipes in the book are also vegan – good news for the rapidly increasing number of vegans in the UK.
Method
Wash the beans and cut into 4 cm pieces. Cook in saltwater until tender. Then drain and rinse immediately under cold running water.
Wash the courgettes and cut into 2 cm dice. Wash the red pepper, remove the seeds and cut into 2 cm dice. Clean the mushrooms, remove any traces of soil and cut the ends.
Heat the peanut oil and sweat the red pepper, mushrooms and courgettes for 3-4 minutes. Drain in a sieve.
Meanwhile mix the coconut milk with the vegetable stock and the curry paste and bring to the boil.
Add the vegetables and cook for another 5 minutes. Add salt and pepper, to taste. Serve with basmati rice with herbs (recipe on p136) and the finely chopped Thai basil.
Tip: you can also add freshly ground ginger.
Method
Heat your oven to 180c/390f/GM4.
In a food processor or the chopper attachment of a hand blender, grind the pecans until they are crumbs. Mix in the ground almonds, sea salt, maple syrup and cocoa powder. Place this on a baking tray, bake for 10-12 minutes until it has dried out but do not let it burn. If the crumb has clumped together press it with a fork so it is in small pieces.
Put the water, amaretto, cinnamon stick, star anise and pears in a saucepan with a lid. Boil for 8-15 minutes until the pears are cooked through. Test this by using a sharp knife rather than a fork which will leave an unsightly mark on the pears.
Mix the cream cheese with the vanilla seeds.
To serve, plate the chocolate nut crumb first, add a pear to each plate and spoonful of vanilla cream cheese on the side and drizzle the hot amaretto water on the pear.
TIPS
Cut the bottom of the pears flat so they will stay upright when plated.
If you want to increase the sweetness in the dish you can serve it with a small pot of maple syrup.
Method
Place quinoa and water in a saucepan.  Add salt, cover and reduce heat to low.
Cook until the water has been absorbed and quinoa has opened (like in sprouting) about 20-25 minutes. Remove from the heat.
While the quinoa is cooking, heat oil in a pan or wok over medium heat.
Add garlic, ginger, onion and a splash of soy sauce and sauté until the onion is tender and translucent, about 4 minutes.
Stir in red peppers (thinly sliced) and a splash of soy sauce and sauté for a few minutes.
Add tofu on top of vegetables but do not stir in, season with 1 tablespoon soy sauce, cover and reduce heat to low and simmer until tofu is cooked through, about 8 minutes.
Add asparagus, orange zest and splash of soy sauce. Cover and cook until asparagus is bright green, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and gently stir in lemon juice.
Arrange quinoa in a shallow bowl and spoon the stir fry over top.
Delicious!
Method
Put half a mug of water in a pan – you can also add 1/4 of a mug of milk OR replace the water with milk
Add the cardamom
Add the oats
Let it boil until it reaches the consistency you like
Serve in a bowl
Add some pumpkin seeds, dried cranberries, pecan nuts, chopped walnuts and any other nuts or dried/fresh fruit that you desire
Enjoy!
Preparation
Method
Whisk together the flour, water, sea salt and 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large mixing bowl until completely smooth.  Leave to stand for 30 minutes – 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 180c.
Slice the pepper into thin strips and roughly chop the sundried tomatoes.  Pour the remaining oil into a large round skillet or oven proof pan, mix in the peppers and cook in the hot oven for 15 minutes.
Remove the pan from the oven, scoop out the pepper strips and pour in the socca batter.  Scatter the slightly roasted peppers, sundried tomatoes and olives over the top of the socca batter and return to the oven to bake for 30 minutes until set and golden brown.
Leave to cool for a minute or two and then cut into slices and serve.
Method
Cook the quinoa, cous cous and peas, following pack instructions. Drain well and spread over a platter or wide, shallow bowl to cool quickly.
When the quinoa, cous cous and peas are cool, stir through all of the remaining ingredients with plenty of seasoning.
Heat up the Pie so that it is warmed through. Serve the salad with the Pie and enjoy!
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 180c fan. Grease and line a baking tray (roughly 33 x 25cm) with parchment paper.
2. Pour the aquafaba and the cream of tartar into the bowl of a stand mixer and mix on medium high speed until stiff peaks are formed. This means the aquafaba doesn’t move even when tipped upside down.
3. Meanwhile, place the plant milk into the microwave for 1 minute to warm through, this can also be done in a pan over a medium heat on the hob. Add in the apple cider vinegar and stir, place to the side.
4. In a large mixing bowl, add the plain flour, caster sugar, cocoa powder, salt, baking powder and baking soda. Mix with a whisk until fully combined.
5. Add the oil and the milk/apple cider vinegar mixture to the dry ingredients and mix until fully combined. The mixture will be very stiff and dry at this point but that’s normal.
6. Gently fold the aquafaba into the mixture one spoon at a time, trying not to knock too much air out. It will become a much looser mixture as you add more aquafaba.
7. Pour the mixture into the lined baking tray, and level out the top until smooth.
8. Place in the oven for 12-15mins, until a skewer comes out clean. Whilst the sponge is baking, lay out a piece of parchment paper the size of the sponge and cover with a light sprinkle of caster sugar.
9. Once the sponge is fully baked, tip it out top side down onto the parchment covered in sugar. Peel off the parchment paper on the bottom of the sponge.
10. Use a sharp knife to make an incision an inch into the short side of the sponge, being carefully to only cut half way into the sponge and not the full way through (this just makes it easier to roll).
11. Carefully roll up the sponge with the parchment still inside (this stops it from sticking together) and leave to cool rolled up.
12. Meanwhile, for the filling, warm the cream until it is steaming (either 1-2minutes in the microwave or over a medium heat on the hob). Once the cream is steaming hot, break up your Rhythm 108 hazelnut truffle bar into chunks and place into the cream. Leave to stand for 1 minute, then stir until a glossy mixture is formed, with no lumps of chocolate.
13. Place this in the fridge to set. Once the ganache has hardened, place into a large mixing bowl, or the bowl of a stand mixer and whip up on medium high until you get a light and fluffy filling.
14. Once the sponge is cool, unroll carefully, then fill with the whipped ganache, spreading out evenly over the sponge.
15. Gently roll back up to form your perfect swiss roll! Don’t panic if there are a few cracks…it looks just as perfect. You can finish by cutting off the edges and dusting lightly with icing sugar!
Method
Makes 20 – 24 mini puds.
Last for up to two weeks in the fridge.
Preparation
Serves 8 (or 4 if you have 3 very hungry boys in your family)
Method
Sweat the onions, garlic and ginger in the olive oil and butter for about 5 minutes.
Add the sherry and sugar and continue cooking until the mixture is thick and sticky, about 5 minutes.
Add the water, sweet potatoes, carrots, tomato paste, sesame seeds, chilli flakes, coconut milk & salt.
Simmer until all the vegetables are soft, about 30-40 min.
Add more water only if necessary.
Purée with a hand blender.
Fry the cubed Polony in a little bit of oil until crispy and set aside.
Add the coriander, cumin seeds and lemon juice.
Serve hot with sesame seeds, coconut and Polony.
Serve with Sourdough or Rye Bread.
Method
Get a pan ripping hot and add a little oil. Place mushrooms, stem facing down, on a baking sheet and drizzle with oil. Place mushrooms, stem facing up, onto the hot pan, and add another pan on top for the pressing step.
Allow the weight of the pan to press them gently and apply gentle pressure using a tea towel once softened (you want them to soften, before properly pressing them, otherwise they break). As soon as you start to see water being released, start to apply more pressure. Turn and press on the other side, until they are half the size of the raw mushroom. (The whole pressing process will take between 8-10 minutes). Repeat for remaining mushrooms until caramelized on edges.
Combine all spices and seasonings in a small bowl and coat the stem side of the mushroom with the blend. Flip over and repeat, coating with the spices. Use a spoon to push the seasoning into the surface of the mushrooms.
Heat up a pan on medium heat and coat surface liberally with vegan butter. Saute mushrooms in a pan and blacken on both sides.
Make Tzatziki; Mix plain yoghurt, mint, garlic clove (crushed and finely chopped), lemon zest, and salt in a bowl.
Prep your side vegetables, cucumber, cherry tomatoes, and fresh parsley
Remove mushrooms from the pan and chop into thin slices, reminiscent of kebab meat.
Warm pitta bread in the oven and wrap in a tea towel, assemble your shawarma on a plate, topped with Tzatziki, arugula, mushrooms, tomatoes, sliced cucumber, parsley, and harissa.
Serve and enjoy!
Preparation
Serves 1
Method
Save a pinch of oats and walnuts to top if desired, blend all remaining ingredients until smooth in a high speed blender.
Top with reserved oats and nuts.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 4 -6.
Method
Place all the ingredients in a blender except the coconut oil and blitz together until very smooth. Warm the coconut oil in a small pan until it just melts, and drizzle it into the blender while the blades are running. Check that the mixture is sweet enough and blend for a couple of minutes until light and smooth.
Sieve the ice cream mix into a thick glass baking dish and cover with clingfilm. Pop it into the freezer. Once it is frozen, take the ice cream out of the freezer and leave it for 20 minutes until it is just starting to soften. Then place it in the large bowl of a food processor and whiz until the mixture becomes smooth and light. Don’t whiz for too long, though, otherwise it will turn back to liquid. Put the ice cream back into the freezer immediately and leave for 3 to 4 hours.
This ice cream will be very hard straight from the freezer, so take it out at least 20 minutes before serving.
Serve topped with crushed nuts and/or sliced fruits. Drizzling over some almond cream or chocolate sauce makes a real sundae of it.
Method
Using a handblender, blend the bananas, milk, 1t molasses and fennel powder. You will have to push down firmly with the blender. The mixture should be smooth.
Add 1t more blackstrap molasses and fold in to create a ripple effect.
Pour into a bowl or glass and drizzle with a little molasses.
Scatter with chopped nuts to serve
Method
Preheat the oven to 350F/180C/160Cfan.
Lightly grease two 8-inch round cake pans, and line the bottoms of the pans with parchment paper.
Combine the milk, egg replacer and vanilla in a food processor. Process for a minute, then add the cooked quinoa and the coconut oil/butter. Blend well until smooth.
In another bowl, whisk together the sugar, cocoa, baking powder, bicarbonate of soda and salt, then add to the quinoa mix. Mix well. Divide batter in half between two cake pans, then bake for 30 minutes.
Allow to cool for half an hour.
Handle with care when removing from pans. Place palm, with fingers outstretched, to hold the cake as you empty it from the pan.
Place raspberries (or raspberry jam or frosting) between the two layers, if desired, and cover with frosting.
Put into the fridge for two hours.
Decorate with flowers and raspberries.
(This cake refrigerates beautifully, and will last a couple of days.)
Frosting: 
Combine a tub of vegan cream cheese with ½ cup cocoa powder and ½ cup coconut sugar, and process until smooth.
Serve with soya cream or ice cream, if desired.
Like this recipe? Sign up to try Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Lightly fry the tofu and vegetables until soft and slightly browned.
Add a little passata – just enough to make the mixture moist – and seasonings and stir.
Leave the filling mix to cool while preparing the pastry.
Cut the pre-rolled pastry sheet into four equal squares.
Spoon a portion of the filling mix into the centre of each pastry square, and sprinkle with feta.
Fold the pastry over the filling mix, forming any pastry shape you wish to!
Lightly brush each pasty with a soy milk / olive oil mix and prick with a fork.
Place in a pre-heated over for approximately 30 mins, or until the pastry is cooked through.
Preparation
Top tip! If you don’t already own it then you must go and buy Isa Does It by Isa Chandra Moskowitz, as she has an entire section on bowl food and every recipe is just wonderful. And quick! Her recipes have literally changed my life.
I haven’t included amounts here as you’re basically making to serve, so enough kale for however many people etc. etc.
Method
Cut up your sweet potato into small chunks and coat with a little olive oil, smoked paprika, turmeric, salt and pepper. Roast for about 30 minutes.
Add 1 cup of rice to cold water, bring to boil, turn down and simmer for 30 minutes. If you want to add extra protein then use quinoa instead of rice.
That’s the most complicated part of the cooking done!
Prepare your veg…
Crush and dice your garlic.
Chop up your broccoli into florets.
Grate your carrot.
Wash your kale and beans.
When it looks like the rice and sweet potato is about 10 minutes off being ready, start cooking the veg!
Put the broccoli in a pan with cold water and on a medium high heat with the lid on. You want to cook your broc until the water is just boiling and then tip out into a colander. Crunchy broccoli is where it’s at!
Add the garlic to a heavy bottom pan with a little oil (only a touch) and get it sizzling. After about 1 minute add your kale.
Once the kale is wilting slightly, add the carrot and then the beans. Mix up well.
Squeeze over the juice of one lemon and add a dash of sesame oil and the soy sauce. Mix well.
Once the beans are warmed through you’re ready to serve. Your broccoli should be bubbling by now too, or thereabouts.
Take out the sweet potato from the oven and get the hummus out of the fridge (I make my own).
Now bowl up…  Add a good serving spoon of rice per bowl, and then dish the veg around it.  Finish with a big dollop of hummus on the top!
Season with pepper and hot sauce, and take the hummus and soy with you to the table in case you want to add extra flavour.
Enjoy!
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Cut your butternut squash into 2/3cm chunks and pour into a roasting tin.
Add a small glug of olive oil, smoked paprika, a little salt and cracked pepper. Mix well.
Put into the oven at 220C for about 30 minutes (cook until soft and slightly caramelised).
In the meantime make your salad… Wash and cut your veg (no need to cut up the spinach unless you have really large leaves, then it is better to tear rather than use a knife) and add to the bowl.
Add all the smaller veggies first and then mix in handfuls of the spinach leaves at a time, so everything is evenly mixed.
Into a fry pan, pour out some sunflower seeds. More is more here, so don’t scrimp. You want at least half a cup of seeds.
Dry fry the seeds on a medium heat until they are turning golden on both sides, stir a lot with a wooden or heat resistant spoon. Take care not to let them burn. Set aside to cool.
When the squash is ready, remove from oven and allow to cool for a minute or so, before spooning on top of the salad mix.
Then add the toasted seeds.
Shake some olive oil over the top, about the same and a half of balsamic vinegar and some cracked pepper.
Mix slightly, but make sure the squash and seeds are still visible on the top.
Serve!
Like this dish? Explore more vegan salad recipes! 
Method
Preheat your oven to 180ºC/350ºF/Gas Mark 4 and grease an 8” round cake tin.
Sieve together the flour, baking powder and sugar. Gently stir in the desiccated coconut.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the plant milk, sunflower oil, syrup and vanilla extract.
Peel and chop the bananas then mash well until there are no lumps remaining or purée them in a blender. Whisk the liquid mixture into the banana purée.
Make a well in the bowl of dry ingredients and fold in the wet banana mixture a little at a time.
Pour into the prepared cake tin and bake in the pre-heated oven for about 45 minutes or until a skewer inserted into the centre of the cake comes out clean. Cover the cake with foil if it begins to brown too much during baking.
Remove from the oven and leave in the tin to set for 10-15 minutes before turning out onto a wire rack to cool completely.
To make the topping, chop the block of creamed coconut into small pieces. Melt it in a double boiler by placing a bowl over a pan of simmering water, making sure the bowl doesn’t touch the water.
Meanwhile, pour the coconut milk into a large bowl and whisk well until smooth or use a blender. If you’re using a 400ml can, whisk or blend the coconut milk before measuring out your 200ml. Stir in the agave nectar and desiccated coconut, then whisk in the melted coconut cream.
Put the topping in the fridge to set a little until it becomes stiff enough to spread on top of the cooled cake.
Decorate with slices of firm banana, which have been brushed with lemon juice to prevent them browning, and toasted coconut shreds or chopped nuts.
Keep refrigerated – if it’s not gobbled up straight away!
Preparation
This recipe makes about 16 Truffles – this will vary according to the size of the Truffles made. 
Method
Put the dates and 1 tablespoon of melted coconut oil in the blender and mix. If it’s not quite combining, drizzle in warm water a little at a time (about 1 teaspoon), scrape down sides and blend until a rough paste or ball forms – if you add too much water it will be difficult to handle them later as they won’t freeze up well
Add the sea salt and blend again, then freeze for 10 – 15 minutes
Create small balls of the mix in  your hands. Put them on a baking tray which has been lined with greaseproof paper and put them back in the freezer while you do the next step
Put the peanut butter and 1/2 a tablespoon of coconut oil in a bowl or pan and melt it on the cooker or in a microwave
Drizzle the warmed peanut butter on the truffles and freeze for about 10 – 15 minutes
Put the chocolate chips and remaining 1 tablespoon of coconut oil in a pan or bowl and melt it
Remove truffles from freezer and, use a fork to scoop truffles in to the pan/bowl, so that it’s coated in chocolate, then hold it above the pan/bowl to ensure that any excess drips off, before putting it on the greaseproof paper again
Put them back in freezer to set, the dust them with cocoa powder to serve
Serving: Serve the truffles straight from the freezer, but if they’ve been in the freezer for a day or longer, take out the number that you are going eat and allow them to soften for about 10 – 15 minutes, before biting into them.
Storage: They can be stored in the freezer for at least 2 weeks.
Optional: Sprinkle a small amount of sea salt on the truffles before freezing them for the final time
Variations: The next time I made these I put them in disposable cupcake cases, which was easier and neater. I’ve now purchased reusable cupcake cases to do this in the future.
Preparation
Cook the mushrooms, shallot and peppers in the olive oil in a pan set over medium heat for 5 minutes.
Add the chickpeas, turmeric, paprika, garlic powder and salt and cook for 3 minutes more.
Fill the cabbage leaves with the chickpea mixture and serve over a bed of rocket.
Preparation
Serves 8.
Preheat the oven to 180C.
Method
In a large mixing bowl, cream the margarine and sugar. Once mixed, stir in the flax eggs followed by the beetroot purée and coffee.
In another bowl, add the flour, cocoa and baking powder. Using a sieve to remove any lumps, slowly add the flour mix to the beetroot mix, a small amount at a time. As you go, gently fold in the flour, avoiding stirring too much. Finally, stir in the chopped chocolate.
Grease a deep tin or oven-proof dish (glass or ceramic are fine) and pour the mixture in, spreading evenly. Place in the oven and bake for around 45 minutes; the exact cooking time will depend on your oven. For fudgy brownies, you can tell they are cooked when the edges begin to pull away from the container and putting a cocktail stick in doesn’t bring out any lumps (it won’t come out clean for fudgy ones even when they are cooked).
Once the brownies are cooked, remove from the oven. Leave for around five minutes to cool slightly before transferring to a cooling rack or kitchen paper. Allow them to cool completely before adding the topping.
Whilst the brownies are cooling, bring a small amount of water to the boil in a large pan. Place a large heat-proof mixing bowl over the pan and add the chocolate, coconut oil, and beetroot water into the bowl. Stir constantly until the ingredients have melted and formed a smooth, glossy paste. Mix in the stevia syrup, if using.
Spread the topping evenly over each brownie and sprinkle with either desiccated coconut or grated chocolate. Serve as warm or cold!
Like this recipe? Sign up to try vegan with Veganuary and enjoy recipes delivered straight to your inbox (it’s free!)
Method
I cook double the quinoa required for this recipe then keep half aside to make a different salad later in the week.
If you have access to a microwave or stove and are feeling the winter chill, this dish could be served hot.
Method
Fry the onions and garlic in oil in a big pan for 1-2 minutes, stirring constantly, and then add the chopped vegetables.
After a couple of minutes, add the black beans still in their cooking liquid, stock, and paprika. Leave to cook for 10 minutes. Check the feijoada occasionally to make sure all the liquid hasn’t evaporated, and to give it a quick stir.
Add the tofu cubes if using, and cook for a further 5 minutes. Be careful not to stir too much at this point, otherwise the tofu cubes can break up.
While the tofu is cooking (in the feijoada) you can make the farofa. Put the onion and garlic in hot oil. When the onion and garlic are golden, add the farofa flour and cook for approximately 5 minutes, mixing all the time.
To serve put a few spoonfuls of feijoada on a plate, cover with finely chopped spring onions and the farofa. Serve with some of the vinaigrette and orange segments. Traditionally feijoada is also served with rice.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more of our vegan South American recipes?
Method
Add chopped rosemary and finely smashed cream crackers to a mixing bowl with the mustard, Fry’s burger cubes, and oregano.
Add water a good pinch of salt and pepper.
With clean hands scrunch and mix up well.
With wet hands, roll the mix into little meatballs – you should end up with 24-28 balls.
Drizzle them with olive oil and jiggle them about so they all get coated.
Put them on a plate, cover and place in the fridge until needed.
Heat a large frying pan on a medium heat and add some olive oil.
Add onion to the frying pan and stir for around 7 minutes or until softened and lightly golden.
Then add garlic and chilli (optional), and as soon as they start to get some colour add the basil leaves.
Add the tomatoes, balsamic vinegar and sugar.
Bring to the boil and season to taste.
Heat another large frying pan and add a lug of olive oil and your meatballs.
Stir them around and cook for 8–10 minutes until golden.
Add the meatballs to the sauce and simmer until the pasta is ready, then remove from the heat.
Add the pasta to the boiling water and cook according to the packet instructions.
Saving some of the cooking water, drain the pasta in a colander.
Return the pasta to the pan.
Spoon half the tomato sauce into the pasta, adding a little splash of your reserved water to loosen.
Serve on a large platter, or in separate bowls, with the rest of the sauce and meatballs on top.
Sprinkle over the small basil leaves and some grated Parmesan (optional).
Preparation
Serves: 12
Method
Put the dates, ground almonds, raw cacao, maple syrup and coconut oil in a food processor and pulse on a slow speed to begin with. The ingredients should start to clump together; once this happens you can increase the speed to create a smooth paste.
Combine the mixture in a bowl with the macadamia nuts and goji berries.
Roll into small balls and coat with the coconut.
Store in an airtight container in the fridge.
Preparation
*Makes around 6 pancakes
Method
Mix all the pancake ingredients together well.
Take approx. 1/4 cup of the mixture to make 1 pancake and fry gently until you see small bubbles forming on the pancake then turn around.
To make the chocolate sauce:
Blend milk and dates in blender, then transfer to a pot and simmer for 5 minutes. Add cocoa, let bubble for another 2 mins and your chocolate sauce is ready.
Serve the pancakes piled high with fruits and your favourite toppings. Pour over the chocolate sauce.
Method
Preheat your oven to 180 degrees Celsius and line a heart-shaped tin with oil and baking paper – if you have two of the same tins line them both!
Combine all of the dry ingredients in a bowl and whisk to combine.
Do the same with the wet ingredients then pour this into the dry mixture, fold to combine.
Pour half into the lined cake tin (or divide between 2 tins) and bake for 25 minutes or until just golden and a skewer inserted comes out clean. Repeat with the other half of the mixture. Allow both cakes to cool fully.
Use an electric mixer to beat together the vegan butter, until smooth and light.
Spread some of the butter cream on top of one of the cakes, then spread a few tbsp of the chia seed jam on top of that. Place the second cake on top with the flat bottom side on top. Use the buttercream to coat the top and sides of the cakes evenly, you may not need it all.
Place into the fridge for 30 minutes to firm up before decorating with berries etc! Enjoy with someone you love!
Preparation
Serves 8-10
Method
Preheat oven to 375 degrees.
Once the oven is preheated, spray a sheet pan and add the meatless meatballs. Bake for 15-20 minutes until crisp around the sides. Remove from oven and set aside. Once cooled halve each meatball.
Warm the olive oil in large soup pot over medium heat. Add in the onions, carrots and celery. Sauté for 4 minutes until onions are translucent.
Add escarole and stir well for 3-4 more minutes until wilted.
Turn the heat up to medium-high, then add the stock and bring to a simmer.
Add the pasta and allow to cook until the pasta is tender (about 5-7 minutes).
Add the beans and halved meatless meatballs and continue to simmer for a couple of minutes.
Season the soup with salt and pepper and remove from heat.
Ladle the soup into bowls, finishing each with a drizzle of quality olive oil and serve with your favourite crusty baguette.
Method
1. Cook the wild rice in salted boiling water for about 16 minutes, Drain the rice
2. Fluff the rice with a fork. Transfer to a small baking sheet and spread out in a thin layer to cool to room temperature. Meanwhile, prepare the other ingredients.
3. Marinate the chicken with salt, cayenne pepper, turmeric, garlic granulate, fresh chopped ginger and sunflower oil for 30 minutes.
4. In a saucepan put part of the soy sauce with the corn-starch diluted with water, bring to the boil then add the sambal sauce, the second part of the soy sauce, the lime juice and chop the fresh ginger
5. Cut the carrots into thin strips. Finely chop the white of the onion, thinly slice the green part, washed the shimeji mushrooms
6. In a hot pan with a drizzle of sunflower oil , brown the carrots and shimeji mushrooms for a few minutes, add the sliced white onions and fresh ginger. Reserve the sautéed vegetable mixture
7. In a frying pan with a little oil add the rice and fry it on low power for 15 minutes, to slowly evacuate the humidity, increase the power to obtain a little crispiness and caramelisation on the surface.
8. Add to rice the mixed vegetables and 3 tablespoons of sambal sauce, mix and fry it over medium heat for about 10 minutes, stirring regularly
9. In another skillet with a little oil, brown the marinated chicken pieces with the small yellow pepperoncini. Cook 2 minutes on each side until nicely browned and add the rice mixture to the chicken
10. Fry the mixture for a few minutes, add 2/3 tablespoons of sambal sauce mix and sprinkle with chopped fresh cilantro, roasted sesame seeds, lime zest and juice
Method
Use a spiraliser & courgettes to create your “courgetti”
Boil the courgetti for 20 seconds, drain and stir-in the Pesto
Add the cherry tomatoes & serve sprinkled with chilli flakes
http://www.sacla.co.uk/recipes/ for more recipe inspiration from Sacla.
Method
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Put the coconut oil into a ramekin and put this in the oven for 5 minutes, to melt.
Drain and thoroughly rinse the beans and put them into a mixing bowl. Add the dates. Combine the flax seeds with the water in a small bowl then add this as well.
Use an electronic hand blender or processor to combine the ingredients you have in the mixing bowl.
Dab a little of the cooled coconut oil into each muffin ‘hole’ to prevent the brownie mix from sticking (I do this by hand to avoid wasting any, but you could use a pastry brush). Add the remaining oil to the mixing bowl.
Stir in the remaining ingredients, except the salt.
Use a teaspoon and spatula to put an equal amount of the brownie mixture into each hole of the muffin tray, smooth the top down, and sprinkle a little salt on each.
Cook for 20 minutes. Once cooled, store in the fridge.
Hungry for more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary for our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, recipes, and more – straight to your inbox. The best bit? It’s 100% free!
Preparation
Toast the sesame seeds until golden brown over a medium high heat in a non stick frying pan then leave to one side
Heat one tablespoon of oil in a pan and add the chicken style fillets and Szechuan pepper. Cook for 10 minutes over a medium heat, turning frequently then set aside and keep warm. Fry the onion and pepper until soft
Meanwhile cook the noodles in boiling water as per pack instructions, drain and keep warm
In a separate pan, cook the green vegetables in boiling water for 5 minutes, drain and add to the onions and peppers with the noodles, soy sauce, coriander, sesame seeds
Serve the noodles topped with the sliced Quorn Meat Free Chicken Fillets
Method
Prepare the homemade cocktail sauce by whisking together the almonds, water and salt.  Then gradually whisk in the olive oil. 
Add the ketchup and a squeeze of lemon juice and whisk together to finish the sauce. 
Prepare the salad by putting the rocket and chickpeas into a bowl. Slice the mushrooms and add them to the mixture. 
Fry the Heura® (or other) strips in a skillet until golden brown. If you like them crispy, sauté for another minute. Put them on top of the salad mix and add the sliced avocado. 
Sprinkle the sprouts and pumpkin seeds on top. 
Dress with a splash of olive oil, a bit of lemon juice and a pinch of salt. 
Finally, top with a generous spoonful of homemade cocktail sauce. 
Method
Pre-heat the oven to 180°C/350°F/Gas 4.
In a bowl, prepare chia eggs by mixing 2 tbsp ground chia seeds with 6 tbsp of water. Leave to rest for 10 mins.
In another bowl, soak sultanas covered with boiling water for 10 mins.
Cream chia eggs and sugar. Add cinnamon, vanilla, bicarbonate of soda, baking powder, salt and coconut oil. Mix well.
Mix in spelt flakes and spelt flour. Add drained sultanas last. Mix together until everything is well blended.
Line a baking tray with parchment paper.
Drop 1 heaped tablespoon at a time to make cookies of around 8cm (3 inches) diameter and 1.5cm (0.5 inch) thickness. Space them apart. Cook for 10-12 mins until golden.
Once cooked place the cookies carefully on a cooling rack to cool down completely. These cookies will keep in an airtight container for up to 3-5 days.
Method
Preheat the oven to 350F/180C. Peel the pears, cut in half, and remove the stalks and seeds. Drizzle with lemon juice to stop browning.
Melt coconut oil (or margarine) in a pan, and add the pear halves. Add the sugar, and allow to caramelise.
After about fifteen minutes, add the coconut cream. Place the contents into a casserole dish. It will look like there’s too much liquid, but don’t worry, as it will be absorbed by the crumble.
Make the crumble: I prefer not to use flour in my crumble as I’m gluten free, but if you’d like it, use about 80g flour, and half the amount of oats. Rub the oil or margarine into the oats. Add the sugar and desiccated coconut. Add the pieces of chocolate and mix well. Place the mixture onto the top of the pears. Bake for 45 minutes.
Serve with soya cream or soya ice cream.
Method
Begin by blitzing the walnuts in a food processor until they form a powder (how chunky you want this to be is up to you).
Add the rest of the ingredients, except the coconut, to the food processor and pulse on a slow speed until they all come together. Increase the speed to form a smoother paste.
Taking a teaspoon of the carrot cake mixture at time, roll into balls using your hands and coat in the coconut.
Place in the freezer until needed.
Like this recipe? Sign up to try Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Individually these recipes are pretty simple and easy but it is a bit of work making them all. However, I find there’s plenty of time around Christmas to spend a few hours in the kitchen and these recipes will make enough to keep you and your family going over the festive period.
The flax seed crackers recipe makes about 30 crackers, 15 plain and 15 flavoured. I used cavolo nero but you can use any leafy greens or even sun-dried tomatoes, or whatever you fancy to flavour them.
Method
Cashew Nut Cheese
Place the cashews in a glass bowl and cover with water, leave them to soak for at least 2 hours or leave them overnight.
Drain the cashews, blend them with 250ml water, the nutritional yeast, salt and lemon juice. If your nutritional yeast flakes are quite large you might want to put them in the blender first to break them down so they are nice and small. Keep blending the mix until you get a nice creamy paste.
Stir in the onion granules and nutmeg.
Pour the mixture into a tin or bowl and leave it at room temperature, covered for 12 hours.
Put the mixture into the fridge and leave to chill for at least 2 hours.
Mushroom and Chestnut Pâté
Cut a cross in the shell of each chestnut and roast them on a baking tray for 30 minutes at 170C.
Place your block of tofu on a flat surface between two folded sheets of kitchen paper and place something heavy on top to press out the water.
Whilst the chestnuts are roasting, sauté the onion and garlic in a large frying pan until soft. Roughly chop the mushrooms and add them to the pan, cooking them for 10-15 minutes until all the liquid has evaporated.
Stir in the crushed peppercorns, salt, herbs and mushroom ketchup. Cook for another few minutes until the ketchup has reduced down, then set aside to cool.
Once the chestnuts are roasted, take them out of the oven and leave them to cool before shelling them.
Put the chestnuts into a blender and blitz until roughly chopped. Add the cooled mushroom mixture, tofu, nutritional yeast and lemon juice. Blend to a fairly smooth paste.
Spoon the mixture into a springform tin or lined loaf tin and press down firmly. Chill in the fridge for at least 2 hours, preferably overnight.
Flax Seed Crackers
Grind half the flax seeds with the sunflower seeds in a blender or spice grinder.
Mix together the ground seeds with the whole flax seeds, salt and water.
Put half this mixture into a blender with the cavolo nero.
Line two baking trays with baking paper and spoon out the two mixtures on the trays and press down firmly with the back of a spoon.
Score the mixture into small squares and bake at 170C for 30 mins or until the begin to crisp slightly and aren’t too chewy inside. (If you have a dehydrator, even better!)
Lift the baking paper and crackers out of the trays and place on a wire rack, serve once cooled.
Method
Heat the oil in a large saucepan
Fry the celery for 10 minutes on a medium heat
Add the garlic. Fry for a further 5 minutes
Add the artichokes and stock
Simmer for 20 minutes until the artichokes are soft
Blend with a hand blender until completely smooth
Add salt to taste
In a small pan heat the balsamic vinegar until it is bubbling
Allow the vinegar to reduce by one half
Pour the soup into bowls
Drizzle the balsamic reduction and truffle oil over the soup
Scatter the preserved lemon on top
Method
Put the couscous in a large bowl and immerse in boiling water.
Cover the bowl and let the couscous swell up.
If the water is completely absorbed after 3-4 mins, you can mash the couscous with a fork and let it cool.
Smother the couscous with the cashew milk and stir in the cinnamon.
Cut the dates, figs and apricots in pieces and mix with the raisins, almond, the orange blossom water and add everything to the couscous.
Cut the pomegranate in half and submerge it in water.
Loosen the seeds with your hands.
The seeds will sink to the bottom and the skin will float on the surface.
Remove the skin from the water and drain the water.
Add the seeds to the couscous.
Serve with a couple of leaves of mint.
Want to see more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary for our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice and more recipes. Plus, it’s 100% free. What’s not to love?
Method
Chop and Blend!
Best serve chilled.
Preparation
The only piece of equipment  you need for the top is a Lattice Pastry Cutter. If you do not have one just cover the top with a regular sheet of pastry leaving a little hole in the middle so the steam can escape.
Method
Put porcini mushrooms in a bowl and cover with boiling water. Set aside.
Cook the rice according to packet instructions. It should still have a bit of a bite. Drain and set aside.
In the meantime, heat some olive oil in a large frying pan. Add banana shallots and 2 crushed garlic cloves. Fry gently until golden and soft.
Clean Brussels sprouts. Cut them in thin slices.
Add Brussels sprouts to frying pan with cranberries, balsamic vinegar and sugar. Mix well and cook together for 10 mins.
Add chopped chestnuts. Cook together for 5-10 mins until sprouts and cranberries are cooked. Season to taste.
Preheat the oven to 200°C/400°F/Gas 6.
Roll out puff pastry to a rectangle of about 33 x 44 cm (13 x 17 inch). Cut pastry to obtain two rectangles of different widths. One should be about 19 x 44 cm (7.5 x 17 inch) and the other 14 x 44 cm (5.5 x 17 inch).
Cover a baking tray with some parchment paper. Please large piece of pastry on top.
Blend vegetables and rice together and pile the mixture on top of pastry leaving a 3 cm (just over 1 inch) edge all around. Brush the edges with some melted dairy free butter.
Run the lattice pastry cutter in the middle of the smaller piece of pastry leaving an edge of around 3 cm (just over 1 inch). Carefully place on top of the vegetable/ rice mixture. The lattice will open as it goes over the filling. Press edges together to seal, folding pastry if necessary.
Brush melted dairy free butter on the lattice and place in the oven for around 20 mins until golden.
In the meantime make the porcini mushroom sauce. Heat some olive oil in a saucepan. Fry onion, garlic and rosemary until soft.
Add porcini mushrooms with their liquid, vegetable stock and wine. Boil together until liquid has reduced by half.
Put flour in a bowl and dilute with some of the liquid from the mushroom sauce, making sure there are no lumps.
Add butter and diluted flour to the mushroom sauce. Whisk regularly and cook under high heat until it has thickened. Blend cream in just before serving. Season to taste.
Serve coulibiac with porcini mushroom sauce on the side.
Method
Place the oats, nuts, seeds, flaked almonds and coconut in a large bowl and mix together. In a small bowl, whisk the apple juice, rice syrup and maple syrup and pour over the dry mixture stirring thoroughly.
Heat the oven to 180C/350F.  Add the mixture to a baking sheet and bake for around 25 to 35 minutes until golden brown and crisp.  Every 5 minutes, stir the mixture and turn it over to allow even browning of the oats.
Remove from the oven and allow to cool.  Stir in the dried fruit.  Store in a sealed container.
Serve with rice milk or almond milk and some fresh berries when in season.
Method
Preheat oven to 160 degrees.
Simmer the Strawberry Chia Jam ingredients on low heat until it thickens. Set aside to cool down
Then make the slices:
Combine oats, apple sauce, cinnamon and ‘egg’.
Mix maple syrup and peanut butter together and put in a microwave for 20 seconds.
Pour into the oats mixture and combine thoroughly, so all the oats are fully coated.
Now set 1/2 cup of the oats mixture aside and put the remaining mixture into a square glass dish. Press down firmly and spread the strawberry chia jam on the top.
Crumble the reserved 1/2 cup of oat mixture and sliced almonds over and press the topping down making sure it sticks well.
Bake for 25-30 minutes.
Love this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary (for free!) and get our celebrity cookbook and more sent straight to you.
Preparation
Makes 12 cookies
Method
Preheat the oven to 180c/350f and line a baking sheet.
Process the flour, pecans, apricots and salt if using in a food processor until crumbly. Gradually add the milk and sweetener if using until a moist but not sticky ball of dough is formed.
Transfer to a bowl and work in the chocolate chips by hand.
Divide the dough into 12 and roll each onto a ball and place spaced apart on the baking sheet. Flatten the cookies with your palm, they won’t spread much while baking.
Bake for 10-12 minutes until golden and firm to touch. Cool on a wire rack.
Method
Prepare the quick cook rice and quinoa as per pack instructions.
Remove to a large bowl and leave to cool then fluff up with a fork.
Cook the soaked hijiki in a small saucepan with enough water to cover, simmering for 10 minutes.
Remove from the heat, drain any excess water and allow to cool.
Add the hijiki to the rice along with the watercress, yellow pepper, radishes and sprouts and mix gently.
Pour over the orange ume plum dressing and top with the roasted seeds/goji berries.
Orange Ume Plum Dressing is a delicious dressing that works well with this hijiki salad, or you can simply serve it over fresh greens or noodle salads in the summer. Store in a glass jar in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Combine the ingredients marked with a (*) to make the dressing.
Method
In a medium-size bowl add ginger, lime, miso and herbs and mix well, add Wicked Healthy “cheez’ sauce to this and mix until incorporated.
Slice potatoes as thin as you can on Mandolin. Mind your fingers! Best not to rinse them after slicing, add to a large bowl.
Slice onions into super thin rounds, rinse with cold water and set aside in a separate bowl.
Add sauce with the sweet potatoes and mix well to coat each slice. Add a little sauce to the onions too and toss.
In a large baking pan. Spray oil pan and assemble potatoes evenly throughout the pan about 3 inches thick / pour the remainder of sauce on top. Just enough so it reaches the top 1/2 inch of the layers.
Mix onions with a little bit of extra sauce just enough to coat and spread evenly on top of potatoes.
Cover with tin foil – try to keep foil tight and not touching the top of the potatoes.
Bake covered @ 350 degrees for 60 minutes or until tender and skewer can go through easily.
Uncover and roast another 10 – 15 minutes to brown the top and crisp the onions – remove from heat and let rest 20 minutes before slicing.
Want more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary for our celebrity cookbook, recipes, meal plans and more straight to your inbox. (It’s also 100% free!)
Method
Step 1:
Pour cooking oil into a pan and add 1 pack of sushi nori sheets to infuse the oil. The longer you leave them in the better: e.g. you could soak them in the morning and then cook the vegan fish fingers in the evening for a more intense taste. Alternatively, if you don’t have much time heat them up a bit for 5 minutes so they give up more flavour. Make sure the heat isn’t too high because they burn easily.
Step 2:
Place ingredients of step 2 into a food processor until you get a semi-smooth mixture.
Step 3:
Transfer the mixture into a large bowl and add all other ingredients from this step and mix. Make sure there are no chickpea flour lumps, otherwise the fish fingers might taste bitter.
Form fish finger shapes. Alternatively, just form sausage shapes. Admittedly it was a bit of work to make rectangular shapes and when they were fried they lost their shape a bit anyway. So if you want to make your life easier, roll them into a sausage shape, it won’t make a difference in terms of taste. They will be quite soft at this stage, but don’ worry they will firm up when fried.
Step 4:
Add breadcrumbs to a bowl and roll the vegan fish fingers in them until they are covered on all sides.
Take the sushi sheets out of the pan with cooking oil and heat up the pan. Fry the fish fingers in the pan until they are golden brown. Place on a kitchen towel to soak up the excess oil.
Optionally drizzle some lemon juice on top when serving the fish fingers. Have cooked peas, chips or potato salad and ketchup or vegan mayo on the side. Enjoy!
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan seafood recipes.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Preheat the oven to 220°C / 425°F / Gas Mark 7.
I use an enamel cast-iron casserole dish for this recipe, however you could just as easily prepare the sauce in a pan on the hob and transfer to an oven dish for baking.
Puy lentils also go by the name of ‘Lentilles Vertes’ and can be found tinned, dried or vacuum packed in most supermarkets.
Method
Place a heavy-based casserole dish on the hob and heat the oil on a moderate to high heat. Chop the onion, garlic, mushrooms, carrot and rosemary leaves and add these to the oil, stirring.
Leave to sauté for 5 minutes, or until the onions soften.
Stir in the chilli flakes, smoked paprika, cinnamon, coriander seeds and pumpkin seeds, followed by the red wine, vinegar, tamari, tomato purée, chopped tomatoes and water. Simmer for 10 minutes.
While this is bubbling away, slice the potatoes as thinly as you can.
Now add the lentils, spinach and black pepper to the sauce and give it a good stir. Remove from the heat and arrange the potato slices to cover the dish in any pattern you like. If you are using nutritional yeast, sprinkle onto the potato topping.
Cover the dish and cook in the oven for 20 minutes.
Remove the lid and return to the oven for a further 20 minutes. The potatoes should be cooked through and nicely crisp.
Serve with lovely steamed greens or a fresh salad.
Preparation
Preheat oven to 180c, and line a baking tray
In a bowl combine soy sauce/tamari/sesame oil and garlic
Add the tofu chunks and coat evenly, before placing on baking tray and into the oven for 20 minutes
Massage the mixed leaves with a drizzle of oil, and then line the lunch boxes
Add the tofu and pineapple chunks, rice, avocado, cucumber and radishes
Garnish with sesame seeds
Preparation
Prep Time: 30 mins 
Makes: 4  
Method
Preheat oven to 180°C. Grease 4 ramekins with coconut oil and then dust with flour, shaking off any excess.  
In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, cocoa powder, salt, baking powder and baking soda. Pour in the coconut oil and vanilla extract. Gradually add coconut milk and Violife Cocospread. Whisk until smooth. 
Divide the batter into the prepared ramekins. Push one piece of dark chocolate into the center of each ramekin.  
Bake for 25 minutes, remove from oven and allow to cool slightly for 10 minutes, before removing from the ramekin and serving upside down. You might need the help of a knife to release the cake from its mold along the sides of the ramekin.  
You can serve with vegan ice cream or simply sprinkle with some icing sugar. 
Method
Preheat oven to 180° C, 160° C fan, Gas mark 4.
Place prunes in a heatproof bowl, pour over 5 tablespoons of boiling water and leave to stand for 15-20 minutes.
Liquidize the prune mixture using a hand blender until smooth and pour into a large mixing bowl.
Sieve the flour into a bowl, then add the remaining ingredients, except the chocolate, and mix well together.
Stir through half of the chocolate then spoon the mixture into a greased and lined 20cm square tin.
Sprinkle the remaining chopped chocolate over the top and bake in preheated oven for 30 minutes until well risen.
Check to see if your cake is cooked by inserting a skewer into the centre of each half.
If it comes out clean, leave the cakes in the tins for 5 minutes before turning out and cooling on a wire rack. Cut into 16 squares.
Method
Heat a heavy based pot over medium heat and add ¼ cup of stock. When hot, add shallots, a pinch of salt and sweat (about 5 minutes).
Add garlic and stir to combine. When fragrant, add turmeric.
When onions and garlic are a dark yellow from turmeric, add rice and toast for 3 minutes. Add remaining stock. Bring to a boil then reduce to a simmer.
When rice is finished cooking, about 40 minutes, remove from heat and let sit for 5 minutes, then fluff with a fork.
Combine rice with the mirin and shoyu.  When combined, add almonds, coriander and spring onions.
Serve hot with a generous topping of the sauce and some fresh greens.
Lemon Tahini and Miso Sauce:
Place all the ingredients marked (*)  in a blender, add the water a ¼ cup at a time and blend to a cream.
Method
Melt the oil and butter, sauté the leeks until soft, add garlic and all herbs, cook for 3 mins. Add the mushrooms and cook for a further 5 mins. Add the nuts and stir well, followed by the tubs of cream cheese, stir until mixed together well. Take off heat.
Heat the oven to 180C.
Mix flours and salt. Melt the butter and water together. Then add to the flour mix and stir well. Shape into a ball and leave for 5 minutes.
Take one-fifth off the pastry and set aside, this is for the lid.
Knead remaining pastry on a floured work surface, roll into a large circle then press into cake tin and droop over the sides of tin, trim leaving a 1 inch border. Any tears in the pastry can easily be pressed back together.
Spoon in half the pie filling then add the dried cranberries evenly on top, finish with the rest of the mixture, pressing down.
Roll out the pastry lid, place on top and fold the pastry from the sides on to pie lid, crimp together. (There should be an inch wall for the cranberries to sit in)Make a slit in the middle of the pie to let steam out. Brush with any plant milk.
Place in the oven for 40 mins.
Now mix the frozen cranberries with the maple syrup and place on top of pie, cook for 5 minutes, the cranberries can burn easily so keep an eye on them 😊
Let pie cool slightly before removing from the tin.
Method
Rinse lentils and bulgur wheat.
Add oil to a large saucepan and sauté onion and butternut squash for about 10 minutes.
Add cayenne, sea salt, pepper, ginger, turmeric, and red pepper (optional). Cook 2 minutes.
Add broth. Bring the mixture to a boil and then reduce heat.
Cook for 45 minutes.
Add orange juice. Cook 5 more minutes.
Top with spring onions and serve.
Preparation
Serves 2
Method
Put a frying pan on a medium heat and add a generous splash of olive oil
Pour in half the packet of gnocchi
Add pepper and salt and stir – keep stirring every now and then as prepare the veg
Chuck the kale in a colander and wash thoroughly. Set aside
Chop up the pepper into bite sized squares
Quarter your tomatoes
Squash each olive with the back of your knife to pop out the stone, rip in half
Pour kale onto board with rest of veg and assess the frying gnocchi – if the gnocchi is starting to turn a light gold colour, turn down the heat and fill the kettle up with water
Pour boiling water into a saucepan, on a medium/high heat and throw in the remaining gnocchi
When each of the gnocchi have floated to the surface (after a couple of minutes) turn down the heat and pour into the colander to drain
In the same pan, on a low heat, put a generous dollop of pesto
Add the peppers, tomatoes and olives and mix together
Check that your fried gnocchi is nearly done – you want it golden in colour, with a crunchy outside and a soft middle. Try if you are unsure
Add the boiled gnocchi to your pesto mix and then add the kale, stirring as you go
When the kale is starting to wilt and darken in colour, turn off the heat on both pans
Serves immediately onto warmed plates, with the pesto-covered gnocchi in the centre and some crunchy fried gnocchi round the edges
Add a little cracked pepper on top
TIP: Leave some for seconds as it is very moreish, but the gnocchi is more filling than you imagine. Best enjoyed with a cool glass of vino!
Serving suggestion: Top with roasted chickpeas and spring onion for an extra twist (second image). Chickpeas are so easy to roast: drain and rinse a can of chickpeas in cold water, pour onto a clean tea towel and dry off as much of the moisture as possible, pour into a bowl, add a splash of olive oil and a half a teaspoon of each of the following: cayenne pepper, oregano, celery salt and garlic granules (this is my favourite mix, but you can experiment with any flavours you like really), and mix well, pour onto a baking sheet and roast for 20 minutes at about 220, and then leave for 5 minutes or so to cool.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Heat the coconut oil in a pan with the peppercorns, chilli and chilli powder, cinnamon, cardamom, clove, turmeric, coriander seeds and leaves, garam masala, garlic, onion and ginger and slowly cook on a low heat, mixing it around occasionally, while you prepare the vegetables. You want to cook it until there’s no longer the smell of raw onion, which should take about 10 minutes.
Add the vegetables and continue to cook over a low heat.
Meanwhile, in a blender, combine the coconut milk and cashews and add to the vegetable mix, along with the water and the sultanas. Leave to simmer for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent it from catching. Season to taste, garnish with coriander leaves and serve with basmati rice and lime wedges for squeezing over.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Heat a saucepan over a medium heat with 2-3 tablespoons of oil and add the onion and garlic. Cook without colouring for a few minutes, then add The Meatless Farm Co mince and season with salt and pepper.
Cook The Meatless Farm Co mince until its browned all over, then stir in the tomato purée, followed by the tinned tomatoes and season to taste. Bring to a boil then let simmer for around 10 minutes – add a splash of water or vegetable stock if it is looking a bit dry.
Meanwhile, bring a large pan of seasoned water to the boil and add the pasta. Stir to stop the pasta from sticking and cook for 7–10 minutes. When it is fully cooked, drain in a colander and drizzle with a little olive oil to prevent the spaghetti from sticking together.
Serve and enjoy!
Method
Place all the ingredients for the dressing in a nutri bullet or blender with enough water to create a thick creamy dressing. This can be kept in the fridge for 3-4 days.
In a large bowl place all the ingredients and mix well. When ready to serve drizzle over the dressing and toss to coat. The salad will keep in the fridge for a couple of days.
Preparation
In a bowl mix the buckwheat flour, salt, and baking powder. In another bowl, mash the banana and mix with the Alpro Plain with Coconut alternative to yoghurt and the Alpro Coconut No Sugars Drink.
Combine the wet and dry mixtures and blend until you have a nice, smooth batter. If it’s too thick, just splash in a little more Alpro Coconut No Sugars Drink.
Next, heat up some vegetable oil in a non-stick frying pan on a medium heat. Ladle in 1 heaped tablespoon batter into the heated pan and repeat according to how many you can fit in your pan. The batter will begin to bubble after about 1-2 minutes. Next, carefully flip the pancakes and cook for another 1- 2 minutes until browned on the underside. Transfer to a plate and cover to keep warm until serving. Carry on until you’ve used all your batter.
Serve each stack topped with the Alpro Plain with Coconut and pomegranate seeds. Breakfast, dessert, snack – make these any time you feel like a yummy plateful of plant-based goodness! 
Method
Pre-heat oven to 200C/180C fan. Grease 8-inch skillet with vegan butter.
First mix the ground flax seeds with water. Set aside for 5-10 minutes.
Melt the butter, then combine with vanilla extract and flax egg.
Combine all dry ingredients with the wet.
Fold in 3/4’s of the chocolate.
Pour the cookie dough into the skillet and press the remainder of the chocolate on top.
Bake for 30-35 minutes.
Allow to cool slightly, then top with vegan ice cream. (I used salted caramel)
Method
Press the vegetables into a screw top or clip top glass Mason jar.
Add the brine making sure to fill to the top.
Cover with a few pieces of cabbage leaves to pack tightly into the jar.
Leave in a cool dark cupboard for up to 5 days.
Refrigerate afterwards for months.
Delicious, sour, salty and crunchy.
Add daily to your meals.
Preparation
1. Mix all the dry ingredients (flours, baking powder, sugar, salt and cacao powder) together in a large bowl.
2. In a separate bowl, prepare the wet mixture. Prepare 2 flax eggs by whisking 2 tbsp of ground flax seeds with 6 tbsp of water and allow to sit for 3 minutes. Add the almond milk, oil and vanilla extract and mix until well combined.
3. Pour the wet mixture onto the dry ingredients and mix using a spatula until you reach a smooth and homogeneous texture. If the batter is too dry and compact, add some extra milk.
4. Coat a non-sticky skillet with some extra oil and put on medium heat.
5. When the skillet is hot, pour in a scoop of the pancake batter and cook until bubbles pop at
the surface (2-3 minutes). At this moment, turn the tortilla in the pan and cook the second side
until brown (1-2 minutes).
6. Serve as tortillas, wrapping some MiiRO popsicles, bananas, coconut chips and drizzle some
peanut butter or chocolate sauce; or can be served as pancakes with maple syrup.
Makes 6-8 tortillas
Method
Heat your oven to 180c/360f/GM4.
In a large bowl mix the flour, raising agents, spices, salt and sugar. Make a well in the centre, add the juice and zest, oil, water and 1tsp vanilla essence. Mix the wet ingredients with the dry ingredients.
If you do not have a ring shaped cake tin put a ramekin in the middle of a 20cm/8 inch cake tin. Pour the batter around the ramekin filling the cake tin. Bake for 25-30 minutes until the cake is cooked through. Remove from the tin. Allow the cake to cool completely before adding the frosting.
Turn the oven temperature down to 70c/160f/GM⅛. Cover a baking tray with baking paper, put the orange slices on the paper with the nuts. Bake for 45-60 minutes until the orange has dried out and the nuts are toasted. Finely chop the nuts.
To make the frosting drain the cashew nuts, blend the cashew nuts with the plant milk, agave and 1/2tsp vanilla essence until completely smooth. The frosting needs to be completely smooth so that it is thick and will not slide off the cake.
Spoon the frosting onto the cake. Dress the cake with the orange slices, nuts and cherries.
Method
Mix the dry ingredients together and set aside.
Chop the onion finely and grate/process the cauliflower (to a rice-like consistency) and add both to the dry mix, then add the water and mix through well.
If you are making mini quiches, separate the batter now.
Stir through your chosen additions (add flavours at the same time as the other ingredients in previous steps if more appropriate to do so)
The mixture should be thick and clumpy but easy to spoon into a tin.
I used an 8” silicone cake tin, but you could also use a metal one with removable bottom, or large silicone muffin cups.
Press the mixture firmly into the pan but leave the top quite rough for some nice texture.
Bake at 180C for approx 30 mins until the tops are nice and golden, or around 20 minutes for mini quiches (keep an eye on the colour).
Serve either hot or cold.
Method
Place the gingerbread biscuits in a blender and blitz until they form a powder. Add in the butter and the salt and blitz again until combined.  
Place in 6 individual greased tart tins and smooth over the base with the back of a spoon. Place in the fridge to set.  
Meanwhile, in a small pot on low heat dissolve the agar-agar in the coconut milk, whisking constantly. Once it comes to a boil, remove from heat and set aside.  
In a large bowl mix the rest of the ingredients and slowly pour over the warm coconut milk, whisking until combined and creamy. Divide evenly amongst the tart tins and place in the fridge for 4 hours.  
In a small bowl combine 100ml pomegranate juice with the cornstarch. Place the rest of the juice in a small pot and bring to a boil for 5 minutes. Pour in the cornstarch and pomegranate mixture and whisk for a further 5 minutes, until a syrup starts to form. Allow to cool.  
When the “c*****cakes” have set, remove from the tins and serve on plates. Pour the pomegranate syrup on top and sprinkle with pomegranate seeds.  
Preparation
Pre-heat the oven to 175 degrees.
Method
Lay the kale out on a baking tray (if you’ve had to wash it yourself pat it down with a paper towel)
Drizzle with olive oil and a little salt
Bake in the oven for 15 – 20 minutes, shaking occasionally to ensure it’s all getting crispy
When crispy, take out of the oven and empty into a bowl
Drizzle with more olive oil, a little more salt (to taste) and a sprinkling of nutritional yeast
Stir and serve.
Method
Place the cardamom, coriander seeds and allspice berries in a dry frying pan and heat over a medium flame until you can smell their fragrant scent – about 1 minute but keep an eye on them.  Transfer to a pestle and mortar and grind to a fine powder.
Next, combine all of the spices together in a small bowl.  Pour over 1 tablespoon of the olive oil and all of the agave syrup.  Stir together until combined.
Preheat the oven to 120c.  Peel the onion and cut into half moon slices, slice the garlic into thin rounds.  Next, peel and deseed the squash.  Chop the squash, fennel and aubergine into large chunks approximately 4 cm in size.
Heat the remaining olive oil in a large heavy based casserole.  Gently fry the onion and garlic until softened.
Add the squash and fry with the onion until the squash begins to give at the edges.
Add the fennel and aubergine to the pan and stir together.  Pour over the spice mixture and stir in until evenly mixed, frying for a further minute.
Pour over the tomatoes and puree, bring to a rolling simmer and then cover and transfer to the oven to cook slowly for 2 – 3 hours.
Preparation
Combining quintessential autumnal flavors—sage, maple syrup, cinnamon—with an array of multi-colored root vegetables, this perfect fall entrée is sophisticated comfort food at its finest. While the combination of root vegetables produces an aesthetically striking dish, it does complicate the process a bit. If you’d like to make the recipe simpler, simply use one root vegetable instead of all six.
Method
Preheat the oven to 400°F.
Wrap the beets, sweet potato, celeriac, parsnip, and turnip each individually in aluminum foil and place on a baking sheet. Place the butternut squash, face-down, on the baking sheet, as well. Roast all of the veggies for 45-60 minutes until you can pierce through them with a fork. Remove from the oven and let sit until cool enough to handle.
Meanwhile, make the pesto. Heat the coconut oil over medium-high heat. When the oil shimmers, add the shallots and sage. Sauté for 5-10 minutes, or until golden brown. Add the sauté to a food processor along with the rest of the pesto ingredients, except for the olive oil. Pulse until well combined, scraping down the sides as necessary. As the motor is running, drizzle in olive oil to achieve the desired consistency.
Set a large pot of salted water to boil.
Once the veggies have cooled, puree each of them separately in a food processor (or mash them separately with a potato masher) and place the purees into separate bowls. Make sure that you process the beets last so as not to stain the other veggie purees with a magenta hue. Combine the purees of celeriac, turnip, and parsnip. You’ll have four bowls of puree in front of you: one deep orange (butternut squash), one light orange (sweet potato), one magenta (beet), and one white (celeriac, turnip, and parsnip). Combine each of the purees with 1 cup of brown rice flour, adding more to each bowl to achieve an ever-so-slightly sticky consistency (the butternut squash and sweet potato purees will require less than the others).
Dust a work surface with additional flour. Divide each dough into two portions and roll them into snakes about 1/2-inch in width. Cut each snake into 10-20 gnocchi and place in a single layer on a baking sheet.
Once the pot of water is boiling, drop the gnocchi—ten at a time and only with gnocchi of like color—into the pot. Cook until the gnocchi floats to the top, about 30 seconds. Remove the gnocchi from the water and place in a colander sitting over a bowl to allow the water to drain.
Combine all of the gnocchi in a large bowl (at this point, the boiling will have sealed their color, so it’s safe to combine them). Add the pesto and stir well to coat. Serve warm.
Method
Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
Blitz the oats in a food processor until you have a flour (you can use wheat flour if you don’t have a food processor).
In a large mixing bowl, mash the bananas with a fork until you have a smooth purée and stir in the remaining ingredients, except the chocolate spread/chocolate.
Half-fill each muffin pocket with the muffin mixture, place ½ a tsp of the chocolate in the centre of each, then cover with the rest of the mix.
Place on the top shelf of the oven and cook for 20-25 minutes.
Method
1. For the swiss roll. Preheat your oven to 160ºC Fan/Gas 3. Line a shallow baking tray approximately 30cm x 20cm with greaseproof paper.
2. Sift the flour and cocoa powder into a large bowl, then add the cornflour, bicarbonate of soda, baking powder, salt and sugar and stir together.
3. Pour the milk, vinegar, oil and vanilla extract into a jug and whisk until combined.
4. Add the milk mixture to the flour mixture and stir well with a light hand, be careful not to overwork the batter then pour into the prepared baking tray and bake in the oven for approximately 25 minutes until cooked through and a skewer comes out clean.
5. Meanwhile for the buttercream. Add the icing sugar, cocoa powder and the butter into a food processor and blitz together. Add the soya milk, a little at a time until the buttercream starts to combine and is smooth. You want a medium to firm texture. Split into two bowls.
6. Once the cake is cooked. Leave to cool for around 5 minutes and then carefully roll into a swiss roll shape, keeping the greaseproof paper on. When cooled after around half an hour, gently unroll the log and spread with black cherry jam followed by half of the buttercream. Once again carefully re-roll the cake this time carefully removing the greaseproof paper as you roll. Once rolled, place the log on a piece of clingfilm and roll tightly and place in the fridge to chill until needed, you could actually freeze the cake at this stage for half an hour.
7. To assemble. Remove the cling film from the swiss roll and cover the outer swiss roll with the remaining buttercream. We use a piping bag for this and pipe lines down sides of the roll then use a fork to create a textured log effect.
8. Sprinkle with icing sugar and serve.
NOTES
1. You could use holly, sprinkles or vegan edible decorations for garnish, Christmas is the occasion to go all out with your decorating.
2. For ease you could just use jam inside the yuletide log and buttercream the outside only.
Preparation
Other things that you’ll need:
Rolling pin and plastic food bag to crush the digestive biscuits
Large bowl
Whisk
Flan tin with removable bottom
Method
1) Place the digestive biscuits in a strong plastic food bag and crush them with a rolling pin.
2) Mix the digestive biscuits, margarine and syrup together and put into a large flan tin with a removable bottom.
3) Pat the mixture down firmly to make a base.
4) Put the base in the fridge while making the filling.
5) Beat the dairy-free cream cheese until creamy (Beat until it holds soft peaks. These soft peaks should fold over when the whisk is lifted).
6) Add the whipped cream, sugar and lemon rind. Beat well.
7) Fill the tin with the mixture.
8) Decorate with the cherry pie filling.
9) Chill well before serving (minimum 3 hours, but ideally overnight).
Bring the cheesecake to room temperature before serving.
If you liked this dessert, check out this vegan lemon cheesecake too!
Method
Cake
Preheat the oven to 185°C.
Beat the Provamel baking & spreading and the sugar for 5 mins with a whisker or food processor, until you are left with a light texture and until the sugars is dissolved.
Add the vanilla and the plant-based alternative to yogurt and fold gently.
Sieve the flower in 3 times over the batter and gently fold until the flour is dissolved.
Do the same with the cacao powder.
Finally add the rice-coconut chocolate drink or similar plant-based alternative.
Stir well until you have a smooth batter.
In the meantime grease 2 baking tins with a diameter of 18cm.
Cover them with a layer of flour.
Divide the batter equally over the tins and bake for 25 to 30 mins.
Let it cool for 5 mins in the tin and afterwards let it further cool outside the tin.
Frosting
Fill the bottom of a cooking pot with some water.
Put a bowl on top of the pot. Make sure the water does not touch the bowl.
Let the water come to a boiling point, but don’t let it further boil.
Put the following ingredients in the bowl and stir until you have a shiny mixture and the chocolate is molten: 300 g powdered sugar, 200 g Provamel baking and spreading, 5 tbsp Rice-Coconut-Chocolate drink, 100 g vegan chocolate, 2 tbsp cacao powder.
Let it cool.
Cover the top of 1 cake with part of the frosting.
Sprinkle with the raspberries, red berries and other berries.
Put the 2nd cake on top of this and gently push.
Generously cover the top with the frosting and decorate.
Method
1. In a medium saucepan add the hot sauce, butter, white vinegar, vegan Worcestershire
2. Add sauce, cayenne, and garlic and bring to a boil.
3. Reduce to a simmer for 6 minutes and cool.
4. To make ranch combine all ingredients and put to one side.
5. To make waffles mix the plant milk, vanilla extract and ACV together in a small bowl and set aside for about 5 minutes to make the vegan buttermilk.
6. In a large bowl add the flour, baking powder and salt before adding the sugar, melted butter, buttermilk mixture.
7. Pre-heat your waffle maker to instructions and add enough mixture to just cover and cook until steam stops. Keep warm in a low oven
8. Cook Quorn Buffalo wings as per instructions and toss in buffalo sauce as soon as ready
9. Stack the waffles with ranch sauce, Quorn Buffalo wings and sprinkle with spring onions
Method
Mash the peeled bananas with a fork and mix in with oil and sugar.
Add the flour, baking powder and cinnamon, and combine well.
Add the seeds and crushed walnuts
Baked in a lined 8in cake tin for about 15 minutes, before checking. Continue baking, checking every 5 minutes until a cocktail stick, popped into the middle of the cake, comes out clean.
Stand to cool and then remove from the tin.
For the icing:
Sift the icing sugar into a bowl, add the water and mix into a thick paste.
Add the golden syrup and make a thick mixture. To make sure it glazes the cake without running off the edges too much check the mixture is thick enough not run off of a spoon.
If it’s really thick, use a pallet knife or back of a large spoon which had been warmed in a glass of hot water, to spread the icing over the cake.
Method
Place pulverized nuts in a large mixing bowl.   In a small bowl stir together the syrups and vanilla.  Mix the wet ingredients into the bowl until the nuts and syrups are evenly distributed and are sticking together.
Place some water in a bowl and moisten hands with water to keep the mixture from sticking. Pinch off a piece of mixture and shape into small balls.  Roll in the desiccated coconut. Keep chilled.
Note: if coating in chocolate chips, simply pop the chips in a metallic bowl atop a pot of simmering water to melt to a liquid.  Using two teaspoons roll the nuggets in the melted chocolate chips and leave to set on parchment paper. Chill and enjoy.
Preparation
This recipe makes 16 Pendas 
Method
Heat the 4 teaspoons of soya milk
Mix the saffron strands in it and let sit for 5 minutes
In a bowl, mix the ground almonds, coconut flour, sugar, salt and cardamom powder
Add the sugar syrup and soya milk which has saffron in it and mix well
Add the 1/4 cup of soya milk and mix to make a soft dough
Make flat discs with the dough – I did this straight on the greaseproof paper using a biscuit cutter that was 48mm in diameter
Add some chopped almonds on top of each Penda
Bake at 150 Celsius for 9-10 minutes – they will expand a little
Let them cool completely before serving or storing
Store in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to a week
Serve when chilled
Adapted from Vegan Richa
Preparation
Nutritional comparison is to cookies made with sugar and peanut butter rather than Sukrin Gold, coconut butter and chopped nuts.
Method
Preheat the oven to 350F/180C/GM4. 
Line two baking sheets with parchment paper. 
Stir the Peanut Flour (and almond if using), baking soda and sea salt together in a bowl. 
Cream the butters with the Sukrin Gold in a food mixer until light and fluffy. 
Add the egg replacer gradually until well combined. 
Gently fold the flour mixture and the chopped nuts, a spoonful at a time. 
Place dessert spoons of the mix on to the trays, leaving plenty of space between them. 
Bake for 12-15 minutes, removing from oven while they are still a little soft in the centre. 
Cool on a wire rack and keep in an airtight container.
Preparation
Serves 4.
Method
Cut the tofu into cubes. Mix all of the remaining tofu ingredients together in a large bowl to create the marinade. Add the tofu to this bowl, mix well to ensure it is full coated. Set aside to marinate whilst you prepare the cauliflower rice and chop the vegetables.
Add the cauliflower to a food processor and blend to create rice-sized grains (do not over-blend or it will be too small to have any texture).
Add one tablespoon of olive oil to a large frying pan. Heat over a medium-high heat.
Once the oil is hot, add the tofu to the pan. Fry for around ten to twelve minutes, turning frequently, until it has begun to crisp around the edges.
Add the chickpeas, mange tout, asparagus, and garlic to the pan with the tofu. Cook for three minutes, then add the cauliflower grains, olives, the juice of half a lemon, and black pepper.
Stirring frequently, cook for around 4-5 minutes until the cauliflower is tender but firm.
Cut the remaining half lemon into slices.
Serve with a slice of lemon on each portion.
Preparation
Serves six
Method
Preheat the oven to 200’C.
Cut the unpeeled pumpkin or squash into wedges and de-seed, place on a baking tray and roast for 20-30 minutes or until the squash is soft and golden.
Leave to cool enough to handle and carefully peel away the skin and place the flesh into the jug of a blender.
Add the sage, salt, pepper and half the milk.
Blend, adding the remaining milk as necessary to get a smooth purée. Pour into a bowl, cover and set aside. Do not clean out the blender jug.
Add all of the tomato sauce ingredients into the jug and blend until well combined and almost smooth. Transfer to a saucepan and wash out the blender jug.
Blend together the white sauce ingredients until perfectly smooth, transfer to a saucepan.
Bring both the tomato and white sauce to a boil, whisking the white sauce all the time until thickened enough to coat the back of a spoon.
Assemble the lasagne, take a large baking dish approx 15 x 10 inches and place about a quarter of the tomato sauce on the base, topped with a quarter of the lasagne sheets.
Top with more tomato sauce, some pumpkin purée then more lasagne sheets, then white sauce and repeat until all is used up, ending with white sauce.
Place slices of tomato over the top, sprinkle with salt and pepper then transfer to the oven and bake for 30-45 minutes until the pasta is al dente and the top is golden and bubbling.
Leave to cool for about ten minutes before slicing and serving.
Method
Preheat oven to 180 C, 160 C fan, Gas mark 4.
Melt together Flora Freedom and golden syrup in a basin over a pan of simmering water.
Remove from heat and stir in the remaining ingredients.
Place heaped teaspoons of the oat mixture on to a baking tray lined with parchment or baking paper.
Bake in centre of preheated oven for 12-15 minutes until light golden in colour.
Leave to cool on the baking tray before transferring to a cooling rack to cool completely.
Store in an airtight container.
Method
Soak the dried wakame flakes in warm water for 10 minutes to soften.
Drain and squeeze out any excess water.
Combine the wakame in a bowl with the other ingredients (including the mirin and shoyu soya sauce) and sprinkle with white sesame seeds.
This salad goes particularly well with chilled skinny soba somen noodles.
Like this recipe and want to try more? Sign up with Veganuary today for recipes delivered straight to your inbox.
Preparation
Make the easy pizza tomato sauce: 
Finely chop one onion and a couple of cloves of garlic. Add to a frying pan with a little olive oil.
Add half a teaspoon (each) of oregano, basil and thyme and mix.
Add a can of chopped tomatoes, a little salt and cracked pepper and leave to simmer and thicken. If you don’t let the sauce thicken enough, your toppings can all slide off when eating. So this is why you need a little time to make the sauce. You don’t want it in any way watery.
Method
Assemble your pizza:
Make tomato sauce or use a base with sauce already added.
Preheat your oven to 220C.
Wash some kale and add it to a frying pan with a little olive oil. Sauté for a few minutes until the kale is dark green. Turn off heat.
Chop the rest of your ingredients and grate the cheese.
Create your pizza! Add sauce, kale, olives, mushrooms, pepper, tomato and, lastly (after 5/10 minutes in the oven) cheese – but you can really do any order you want.
Remove and eat in great big slices!
Explore more vegan pizza recipes!
Method
Preheat the oven to ± 190º F /370º C / Gas Mark 5.
Slice the tempeh into 1/4-inch-thick pieces and set aside.
In a small bowl, combine the sesame oil, shoyu, hot sauce, (if using) garlic cloves, ginger and juice from one lemon. Whisk to combine and transfer to a large, zip-closed plastic bag.
Place the sliced tempeh in the bag and gently massage it with your hands to coat all the pieces. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Add the sesame seeds to a shallow bowl.
Remove the tempeh from the marinade. Dip each side of each piece of tempeh in the sesame seeds and set on a baking sheet lined with some parchment paper. Bake for 10 minutes, turn over and bake ten minutes on the other side until crisp and golden.
Serve on a bed of steamed greens topped with some miso or natto relish or one of my tasty sauces or chutneys.
This also makes great ‘bento’ lunches, delicious to eat cold the following day.  Use in sandwiches stacked with fresh salad greens, cucumber and vegan mayo.
Preparation
4 units
Method
Season the seitan slices with salt, pepper, garlic and soy sauce. Grill them and also the cut sausages and the mushrooms.
Display 4 bread slices in a tray.
On each bread slice display the seitan, the sausages, the ham, the mushrooms, the tomato slices and another slice of bread on the top.
Display the cheese slices in order to cover the bread on the top, and after melting a little they should cover all the sides.
Take the tray to the oven at 200º C just to warm up and melt the cheese.
Meanwhile, prepare the sauce by adding all the ingredients in a food processer to mix everything. Take it to boil, taste it and rectify the seasoning if necessary.
Serve each “francesinha” with the hot sauce on it. Some French fries combine very well with it.
Maria Aragão, author of the vegan recipes book “Omeletas sem Ovos”.
Preparation
Cut the seitan into bite-size strips, slice the mushrooms, dice the onion and chop the carrot into rounds. Heat the olive oil in a cast-iron stockpot (a sauté pan with high sides or a large saucepan will also do) over medium heat and sauté these ingredients, stirring often.
Once the onions begin to brown, add the water, white wine, soy cream, bouillon, soy sauce, and spice. Cook for about 15 minutes over medium-low heat (just below simmering), stirring occasionally.
Taste and add salt and pepper if desired. Remove from heat and incorporate the cashew butter to make the sauce creamier. Serve with rice or quinoa.
Recipe translated from French by Elisabeth Lyman
Preparation
Since I  do not own an ice cream maker, nor, I’m sure, do many of you, I’ve offered instructions for two methods of making this ice cream with no more appliances than a freezer, a spoon, and maybe a food processor. 
Method
Combine all of the ingredients in a blender and puree until very smooth.
Ice Cream Machine Method: 
Pour the pureed mixture into an ice cream maker and churn according to the maker’s instructions. Transfer to a container and store in the freezer.
Non-Ice Cream Machine Methods: 
Pour the pureed mixture into a large Tupperware container, a deep baking dish, or a stainless steel bowl and place inside the freezer. After 45 minutes, remove the mixture from the freezer and stir it vigorously with a spatula or whisk, breaking up any frozen sections. Return the mixture to the freezer, stirring vigorously every 30 minutes for about 2-3 hours, or until the mixture is completely frozen. Store in the freezer. With this method, you’ll have to thaw the ice cream for at least 10 minutes before serving.
An alternative non-ice cream machine method is to pour the pureed mixture into an ice cube tray and freeze completely. When you’d like to enjoy a bowl of ice cream, pop a couple of the frozen cubes out of the tray and blend in a food processor until creamy.
Method
Boil the noodles in 2.5 litres of water according to the cooking instructions. [UK 4.4 pints]
Mix the miso and tahini in a small saucepan.
Add the water a little at a time and mix well to make a smooth sauce.
Add the remaining ingredients and bring to a gentle simmer.  If it’s too thick, add a bit more water, if it’s too thin, simmer briefly to thicken the sauce.
To serve, put the noodles into individual serving bowls, spoon the sauce over the top, and garnish with the spring onion and finely sliced red peppers.
Preparation
Makes: 14-16 truffles
Preparation time: 15 minutes
Method
Place the cream in a small saucepan and add the chopped Nākd Caffé Mocha bars
Stir over a gentle heat, until the Nākd Caffé Mocha bars start to melt
Remove from the heat once the Nākd Caffé Mocha bars has melted and place in a food processor
 Blitz the mixture until it binds together and then roll the mixture into 16 small truffles
 Place the pistachios on a plate and roll each truffle into the nuts
 Chill until ready to eat
Method
Make the Hollandaise sauce in a measuring jug adding the Protein Oat m.lk, vinegar, seasoning & mustard. Blend and mix well together.
Slowly trickle the oil until the sauce is thick & creamy.
Cover your sauce & set aside until you’re ready to serve
Cut the tofu into rectangles & fry in a pre-heated frying pan. Pan fry until golden for around 3-4 mins
Put your Tofu to the side, and pan fry the spinach for about 1 minute seasoning with a pinch of salt & pepper
Press your spinach with a clean kitchen towel to soak up any excess liquid
Serve everything on top of your toasted muffin or bagel!
Method
Remove the leaves from the cauliflower and cut into chunks. Then using a blender or food processor, blitz the cauliflower until it is finely chopped so that it resembles rice, i.e. cauliflower crumb
Transfer the crumb into a steamer and steam for 15 mins or microwave in a bowl with cling-film (with a hole or two on top) for 6 mins until soft
Preheat the oven to 200ºC (180ºC fan). Line 2 large baking sheets with greaseproof paper and a little coconut spray oil
Allow the cooked cauliflower crumb to cool before transferring into a clean tea towel and squeezing as much moisture as you can out. (Really wring it!) You may need more than one tea towel
Transfer the dehydrated cauliflower crumb into a bowl and add the remaining pizza base ingredients: ground chia seeds, protein powder (I used Pulsin Soya Protein powder), ground almonds, nutritional yeast, chia egg substitute, dried mixed herbs, a large pinch of salt and plenty of freshly ground black pepper
Using your hands, divide the pizza mixture in half and place directly on each baking sheet. Shape into a ball and then press down to form a round pizza base shape
Bake for 15 mins until the bases are golden brown and starting to crisp a little at the edges. If you want your base extra crispy, half-way through baking, flip it over to ensure both sides are well baked
Whilst the base is baking, mix together the ground flaxseed, sugar-free apple sauce, tomato purée, tamari, dried oregano, garlic and season with salt and pepper
Spread the tomato topping onto each of the pizza bases
Then top your pizza with your topping of choice. I Have chosen roasted vegetables and slices of basil pesto tofu. Sprinkle over with nutritional yeast
Turn the oven up to 240ºC (220ºC fan) and bake for a further 12- 15 mins
I love to serve mine with a large handful of fresh rocket on top and a side salad. Enjoy!
The key to making a great cauliflower crust pizza is by making a cauliflower crumb and then dehydrating it, so that as much moisture is squeezed out as possible, allowing the remaining crumb to be turned into a crispy pizza base. (If you don’t squeeze out the moisture, the base will be all soggy). You will be surprised with the amount of liquid which comes out! But this delicious grain-free pizza is well worth the effort.
There are two ways you can dehydrate your cauliflower crumb: the more time-consuming method is by putting the cooked cauliflower crumb in a tea-towel or two and wringing out the moisture. (I think of this as stress relief!). Alternatively, if you are lucky enough to have a juicer, you can simply feed cauliflower florets through the juicer and collect the residual crumb and mix this directly with the remaining pizza base ingredients. (No need to cook before using!).
So why not give this recipe a go, to create a delicious vegan pizza chock full of vegetables!
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Place the basmati rice in a pan of water and add the vegetable stock. Add seasoning if required. Bring to the boil and simmer until tender.
Meanwhile, place the Tikka sauce, chickpeas and sweet potato in a pan + bring to a simmer. Bubble gently for 10-15 minutes.
Drain the rice and keep warm.
Heat the sunflower oil in a frying pan and add the spinach, chilli, onion and coriander.
Fry until the onion is starting to brown slightly, then add the rice and turn off the heat. Stir in the vegetable gently so that the rice doesn’t break up.
Serve topped with the Tikka sauce and dress with the soya yoghurt and a little coriander.
If you enjoyed making this recipe, why not browse more of our favourite vegan curry recipes?
Preparation
Place the peppers, onion, mushrooms + tofu in a bowl. Add 2 tbsp of sunflower oil and half of one of the pots of Rogan Josh. Cover + marinade for at least 2 hours or overnight.
After marination make up 8 small skewers with alternate vegetables + tofu.
Rinse the basmati rice and season to taste. Cook as per the pack instructions adding the peas + nigella seeds for the final 5 minutes of cooking. Drain and keep warm.
Warm the remaining Rogan Josh sauce either in a pan or simply microwave.
Oil and season a griddle pan and heat. Add the skewers + turn until all sides are well browned.
Serve on a bed of the warm rice and topped with the remaining Rogan Josh sauce.
Alternatively you can use the griddled vegetables to fill gluten-free chipatis.
Method
Add the oil, rice, onion, and garlic to a medium sauté pan.
Cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, until the onions become translucent and the rice turns a golden brown (about 2 minutes).
Add the vegetable broth, frozen vegetables, and mushrooms.
Bring to a boil, cover, and lower to a simmer.
Allow to simmer for 20 minutes.
For more recipes like this, sign up to Veganuary. You’ll get our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, recipes and so much more sent straight to your inbox. The best part? It’s all free!
Preparation
Bring the water to the boil then add the soy sauce, mango chutney, lemon juice, brown sugar, black pepper, ginger and Knorr bouillon.​
Boil for 2-3 minutes until the sugar has melted then remove and set aside.​
Mix the pumpkin, onions, potatoes and prunes together then pour out into a deep oven tray.​
Pour over the sauce then cover and bake for 45 minutes @ 180C.​
Remove the tray from the oven and add in the NoChicken Chunks and stir through.​
Return to the oven, cover and bake for 10 minutes then remove and allow to rest for 5 minutes.​
Stir through the chopped parsley, adjust the seasoning and serve.
Method
Heat coconut oil in a pot over a medium heat.
Dice the spring onion, yellow onion and garlic then add to the pot.
Add the lemongrass stalk, minced ginger and chopped carrots and cook until soft.
Once fragrant add the water, coconut milk, tamari and vegetable stock and bring to boil.
Once boiling add the red peppers, mushrooms and any other desired vegetables and reduce to simmer for 15-20 minutes.
Remember to remove your lemongrass stalk before serving. Add more tamari or salt as desired.
Serve with a wedge of lime, diced spring onion and roughly chopped coriander.
Preparation
Serves 1.
Method
Mix the peashoots, cucumber, tomatoes and mint in a large bowl.
Mix the miso, lemon juice and nutritional yeast in a glass and add to the salad.
Use your hands to mix well so that all of the leaves are covered with the dressing.
Put the salad onto your plate and top with the seeds.
Preparation
Add the carrots, onion, and garlic to a food processor and pulse until finely chopped. Transfer to a large mixing bowl and repeat this with the rest of the vegetables, adding each to the bowl once chopped.
Mix the flax meal with 12 tablespoons of water in a small bowl and set aside for 5 minutes to thicken.
Add the contents of the bean tin to the food processor with the flax mixture and puree until smooth. Add this mixture to the bowl of vegetables.
Add 100g of the breadcrumbs and the gram flour to the bowl with some seasoning and mix well. Pour in the flax mixture and combine everything into a paste using a spatula or clean hands.
If baking the nuggets, preheat the oven to 180°C (Gas Mark 4, 350°F) and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. If frying the nuggets, gently heat 1 cm of oil in a large frying pan.
Taking tablespoons of the vegetable mixture, shape into nuggets and roll in the breadcrumbs to lightly coat each one.
Place the nuggets in the frying pan or on the baking sheets, ready to be transferred to the oven. Shallow fry on all sides until crisp and golden or bake for 25-30 minutes, turning halfway through.
Serve with baked sweet potato wedges, mashed potatoes or baked beans.
TIP: These nuggets freeze well, and can make a super easy and nutritious tea time treat for kids. Simply complete the recipe up to the end of step 5 and open freeze on trays until solid. Transfer to freezer bags and store until needed. Simply bake in the oven, adding 5 minutes to the cooking time. Ensure the nuggets are piping hot before serving. 
Method
Pre-heat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.
Grease 2 x 23cm / 9in non-stick springform cake pans with dairy-free butter. Line bottoms of the cake pans with greaseproof paper.
In a large bowl, sieve together plain flour, caster sugar, 85g cocoa, baking powder and bicarbonate of soda.
Add almond milk, vanilla extract and vegetable oil. Mix well.
Add grated courgettes and mix until all is well combined.
Divide the mixture evenly between the two cake tins.
Cook for 25-30 mins until an inserted cake skewer comes out clean. Leave the cakes to cool for 5 mins in their tins then carefully remove the sides of the springform cake pans. Run a palette or rounded knife on the inside edge of the cake pans first to make sure the cake comes out neatly. Cool completely.
Once you are ready to ice the cake, prepare the chocolate icing. In a bowl, melt 75g of dairy-free butter with boiling water. In a separate bowl, mix together the icing sugar with 1 1/2 tbsp sieved cocoa powder. Add the melted butter to the sugar mixture. Blend well until you have a smooth icing.
Assemble the cake by placing one cake on a serving plate (having carefully removed the baking sheet). Spread some chocolate icing over the first cake then top with the other cake (from which you will also have carefully removed the baking sheet). Ice the cake all over with the chocolate icing with a palette knife. So it does not get too messy you can place some long strips of baking paper around the edges of the cake while you ice it. Leave to icing to set (around 20 mins).
Love this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200c
Put the hazelnuts in the oven until the skins have darkened. Not all of them will go dark so just roast them until most of them have darkened
Cool the nuts
Rub them between your hands to remove most of the skin
Grind the nuts using the chopper attachment of a hand blender or a good blender
Add the syrup, oil and water and blend until it is a smooth paste. Add the cacao and blend again
Slice 4 bananas and set aside
Blend the other 4 bananas with the flour, baking powder and milk
Warm up a non-stick pan on a high heat
Pour 1/8 pancake batter into the centre of the pan
Flip (carefully) once it is cooked on the bottom
Preparation
Serves 2
Blend the rice vinegar, tamari, dates and one pineapple ring to a fine paste.
Either mince or finely grate the garlic cloves.
Cut the remaining pineapple and bell peppers into 1-inch cube-shape pieces.
Drain the water from the tofu, and cut the tofu into 1-inch cube-shape pieces.
Slice the chillies and spring onions into rings.
Method
Warm up a non-stick pan and keep on low heat.
When the pan is warm, add the tofu pieces.
As the tofu pieces cook they will release water – simply allow the water to steam off.
Toss the tofu pieces so that they do not stick to the pan.
Let the pieces brown slightly, or cook until they are hot to touch.
Increase the heat if the tofu pieces are not browning.
Add the garlic and stir when necessary to prevent the garlic from burning.
When you get the aroma of the garlic, add the chillies and stir.
Add the remaining ingredients, except for the spring onions.
Let all the flavours blend. If using canned pineapple add the pineapple juice if the tofu is absorbing all the liquid.
Allow to simmer for about 5 minutes, or until all the tofu pieces have been coated well.
Take off the heat and finally add the spring onions.
* This dish can be made in advance; heat it up before serving.
* This dish can be served with rice or noodles.
Method
Place all the ingredients into a blender and blend until creamy.
Add more water or plant based milk if needed to reach desired consistency.
Pour into a bowl or jar and serve with your favourite toppings.
We love to top our nice cream with date syrup and chocolate chips.
Method
Preheat the oven to a low, warm temperature (120 – 212 degrees Fahrenheit or 50-100 degrees Celsius). Place a plate to warm inside.
Add the milk and one tablespoon of olive oil to a large mixing bowl. In another bowl, mix all the dry ingredients: flours, salt, cayenne, turmeric, paprika and baking powder.
Add the dry ingredients bit-by-bit to the wet, whisking as you do, until a smooth batter forms. Then add in the garlic and stir in thoroughly.
Get frying! Heat a little oil in a frying pan and drop in small rounds of batter. Fry the pancakes till golden brown on both sides. Keep any finished pancakes in the oven on the warmed plate, until all the batter is fried.
Serve immediately with your choice of vegetable side and condiments.
Enjoy!
Method
Place a large saucepan over medium heat and add the coriander seeds. Allow them to toast, swirling the pan, for a few minutes until smoky and fragrant. Don’t allow them to burn. Remove them from the heat and grind roughly in a mortar and pestle or spice grinder.
Add the oil to the pan and add the spices, including the ground coriander seeds, dried chili, and curry leaves. Stirring constantly, allow the spices to temper in the hot oil until bubbling and very fragrant.
Add the chopped onion to the pan and stir. Fry for around two minutes but don’t let the onion brown (lower the heat if necessary). Add the garlic and ginger and cook for a further 2 minutes.
Add the chopped tomatoes and stir well. If the onions are starting to stick at this stage, add 3-5 tbsp of water along with the tomatoes to deglaze the pan. Cook, stirring often until the tomatoes are starting to break down and lose their shape – around 5 minutes.
Add the cubes of butternut squash and the chickpeas and stir to coat in the curry paste. Add the vegetable stock and bring to a simmer. Stirring occasionally, allow the curry to simmer with a lid on for around 10-15 minutes or until the squash is cooked.
Once the squash is cooked and the sauce has reduced nicely, add the coconut milk and stir. Lower the heat and allow the curry to simmer for a few moments before removing from the heat.
Stir in the coriander and top with the flaked almonds. Serve with steamed basmati rice and/or Rotis.
Method
Wash the spinach and parboil in salted water. Rinse with cold water.
Add the seasoning ingredients to the prepared spinach and mix with your hands until fully coated.
Preparation
Defrost OmniMeat, mix well with marinade sauce. 
Heat the pan and add 200ml oil, then deep fry the eggplant over medium heat for about 1 minute, drain and set aside. 
Heat the pan and add 1 tsp oil, then stir fry chopped shallots and ginger over medium heat until aromatic. Then, add OmniMeat and stir well. 
Add chili bean sauce and stir fry over high heat for 1 minute. 
Add the eggplant and pour 100ml water into the pan, then cook for 3 minutes. 
Add Chinese celery and season with sugar and done! 
Method
Preheat oven to 400C.
Get a frying pan wicked hot, add some oil to coat the bottom of it.
Dust both sides of tofu with liberal amounts of pepper, pinch of salt and sear on each side until golden and crisp.
Place the entire pan into the oven and bake for five minutes.
Serve with as much sriracha as you can handle and garnish with fresh herbs.
Method
Preheat oven to 200° C, 180° C fan, Gas mark 6.
Sieve the flour, then place all ingredients for pizza base together in a mixing bowl and mix together to form a soft dough. Alternatively, throw the ingredients into a food processor to blend together.
Place the dough onto a lightly floured surface. Knead lightly and shape into a flat round about 20-23cm in diameter. Place on a greased baking tray.
Scatter the sundried and cherry tomatoes on top of the base, followed by the remaining topping ingredients, finishing off with a sprinkling of dairy free mozzarella.
Bake in preheated oven for 20-25 minutes, until the base is light golden. Serve straight away with a crisp mixed salad.
Method
Drain the tofu, wrap in kitchen paper to remove excess water for 20 minutes, cut into 1 cm pieces and place in the soy sauce to marinate.
Bring a pan of water to the boil and blanch the green beans and asparagus tips for a minute, drain and refresh in cold water.
Heat the oil in a wok, add the green Thai curry paste and cook for 2 minutes stirring frequently.
Add the tofu, stir lightly until coated with the curry paste then cook for a further 2 minutes. Then add the shallots, chilli and garlic and carry on cooking for another 2 minutes.
Pour in the coconut milk, bring to a simmer, then add the baby corn, courgette, red pepper, green beans and asparagus. Cook over a medium heat for 4-5 minutes then add pak choi. Simmer once again for a minute then lastly tip in the fresh lime juice and chopped coriander.
Serve sprinkled with a small amount of chopped coriander and spring onions accompanied with Thai jasmine rice.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more of our vegan curry recipes.
Preparation
Chop the chillies
Crush the garlic cloves
Peel and chop the carrots, julienne style
Wash the remaining veg
Unpackage & drain the tofu, cut into cubes
Method
In the large pan, heat a small amount of oil and add the chopped chillies, leaving back a few pieces for garnish if you so wish
After a minute or so, add the ginger and garlic
Mix well then add the chopped carrots
When the carrots have begun to soften, add the rest of the veg
Add the curry paste and mix well, ensuring everything is well covered
Add the coconut milk, fill the can with water and add  to the pan
Bring to the boil then leave to simmer
In the frying pan, heat some more oil then add the cubes of tofu
Turn the tofu occasionally, ensuring all sides cook evenly
Add the noodles to the soup and mix well
Once the tofu is almost cooked, add the cashew nuts to the pan
Add salt and pepper to the soup according to your personal taste
Serve the soup in a bowl, then add the tofu and cashew nuts on top
Garnish with fresh coriander & remaining chopped chillies
Method
1. Finely chop the garlic and add to a pan with a little oil on a medium heat. 
2. Once fragrant, add the sliced red onion, chopped green chilli, the roasted red pepper and olives.  Cook for 5mins.
3. While they’re cooking, put your pasta on to boil. 
4. Then pour a tin of chopped tomatoes into the onions, along with a generous helping of chilli flakes (depends on how spicy you like it). Add a pinch of sugar to help enrich and sweeten the sharpness of tomatoes. A splash of balsamic will add depth to the flavour.
5. Mix everything together and cook on a medium heat while the pasta cooks.
6. Add your pasta to the pan and mix mix mix thoroughly. 
7. Transfer to two pasta bowls, grate some of your favourite vegan cheese and garnish with a generous handful of peppery rocket.  Bellissimo! 
Enjoy recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary and we’ll send you recipes, meal plans, nutritional advice, celebrity cookbooks and more for free!  
Method
Start by cooking the polenta in the water, according to the packet instructions. When the polenta is almost ready, stir in the walnuts and dill. Pour the thickened mixture onto a parchment lined baking tray and spread to about 1/2cm thick and set aside to cool.
Roughly chop all the veg for the soup. Add the onions to a large saucepan with a little oil and cook on a medium heat until they start to soften.
Then add the garlic, leek, carrot and potato and half cover the pan with a lid for about 5-10 minutes before adding the cumin and garlic.
Stir for a few minutes then boil the water and add to the pan along with the stock. Leave to simmer for around 30 minutes until the potatoes are soft.
Whilst the soup is cooking, prepare the cashew cream. Drain the cashews from the water the have been soaking in and rinse. Blend with 100ml of water and the lemon juice until completely smooth, this may take a few minutes. Set aside or make in advance and put in the fridge until your ready to use it.
Return to the cooled polenta and chop into crouton sized chunks. Cool under the grill on a high heat for around 10-15 minutes, turning occasionally until the croutons are evenly crisp on all sides.
When the soup is ready add in half the cashew cream. Then blend the soup until smooth, either in the pan using a stick blender or pouring it into a food processor.
Serve in warm bowls, spooning over more cashew cream into each bowl and topping with the croutons.
Preparation
Makes 1 loaf
Method
Preheat the oven to 220c.
Place all of the dried ingredients into a large mixing bowl and stir together. Next add the sundried tomatoes and toss together in the flours so that the pieces become coated – this will allow them to become evenly distributed.
Pour over the almond milk, oil and cider vinegar (or lemon juice) and then mix together until you have a large, tacky ball of dough. Coat your hands in extra flour and carefully lift the loose dough and place on to a large baking tray, shaping it into a round loaf approximately 6 inches in diameter.
Score the top of the loaf into 8 segments (you can be quite light with the knife as the dough is so soft). Bake the bread in the oven for 15-18 minutes or until golden and crusty. Remove from the oven, leave to cool for 10 minutes and then cut into segments and enjoy.
Method
Preheat the grill to medium/hot. Mix all the ingredients together in a large bowl. Add the flour and fold until you achieve a consistency that glues the ingredients together adding a little more flour if required.
Using your hands make the burgers with two tbsp of the mixture.  Place the burgers on a foil lined grill tray and grill for 15 minutes, turning halfway through. Serve with some toasted sourdough crusty bread spread with vegan mayonnaise. Top with your favourite chutney, sliced avocado, cucumber, tomatoes and some fresh greens.
If you enjoy a smoked taste add 1 tsp of smoked paprika to the mixture.
Alternatively; fry the burgers in a heavy based frying pan and use organic sunflower oil.
Preparation
Slice tempeh into thin 0.5 – 1cm slices.
Heat a frying pan and add the oil. Once the oil is hot, add the tamari, maple syrup and liquid smoke. Fry the tempeh strips on each side for about 2 to 3 minutes, ensuring both sides are lightly browned, turning every so often until the edges look caramelized.
Whilst the tempeh is frying, mash an avocado until smooth and toast the bread.
Add a thick layer of smashed avocado to the toast and then add the tempeh bacon on top. Sprinkle over the toasted seeds.
Recipe provided by: www.plant-power.co.uk
Method
This salad really is a handful of things, thrown to together, drowned in dressing and then left to meld – heaven!
Here, golden, slightly salty, crisp chunks of bread, sweet and crisp apple (an addition to the classic), juicy tomatoes, lots of fresh basil and red onion, marinated in lemon juice to take away that bitter bite that it can sometimes leave. Lots of olive oil, seasoning and there you have it… Apple, Tomato and Basil Panzanella.
Serve this as it is, as a delicious lunch for two – perhaps with a few slices of ripe avocado on the side.
Preparation
You’ll need to pre-heat the oil in your deep fryer.
If your chicken-style pieces are frozen then begin by defrosting them ready for use.
Method
Add together all of the dry ingredients – flour, baking powder and dried seasonings – and combine well.
Make a well in the centre of the dried ingredients and add the bottle of chilled beer. Stir well to combine until a smooth batter has formed.
You can drop a small amount of batter into the frying oil if you need to check to see if it is hot enough. The oil will sizzle and the batter begin to puff up if the oil is indeed hot enough.
Dip the chicken-style pieces into the batter and, once fully coated, drop carefully into the oil. You may need to do this in several batches if you have only a small fryer so be patient and be sure not to overcrowd the fryer because the batter needs enough room to properly cook.
Fry for 5 minutes or so, until crispy and golden in appearance, and then transfer to a paper towel in order to remove the oily residue.
Serve up as a side dish to any Chinese meal, with chips and ketchup or even as a snack on its own with sweet chilli sauce.
Method
Toast your bread
Spread with vegan marge and Marmite
Layer the avocado and sliced tomato in whichever way you please – you may wish to mash the avocado and then put the tomato on top
Salt and pepper to taste
Shake of hot sauce if you like that kind of thing (which I do!)
Demolish!
Preparation
Makes 16 Cookies.
Preheat the oven to 180°C.
Method
Mix all the ingredients in a bowl.
Scoop 16 teaspoons of dough on a paper lined baking tin.
Put in the oven for 10 minutes.
Let them cool.
Preparation
Serves 8.
Method
Boil the potatoes in a large pan of salted water for 8-10 minutes, until just tender. Drain and leave to cool slightly. Mix with 2 tbsp olive oil and season. Alternately thread the oiled potatoes and bay leaves (folding the leaves if they are large) onto 8-16 metal or wooden skewers. Set aside.
Light or preheat the barbecue, griddle or grill to medium. Mix 1 tbsp of olive oil, the paprika and some seasoning together, then rub over the tomatoes and onion. Cook on the barbecue for 10 minutes, turning often, until softened and starting to colour.
Place the tomatoes and onion into a food processor with the remaining 2 tbsp olive oil and the vinegar. Blend until smooth, then press through a sieve into a saucepan. Mix the cornflour with 1 tbsp cold water and stir into the tomato sauce. Warm over a low heat and bring to a simmer for 5 minutes, stirring often, until slightly reduced and thickened.
Meanwhile, cook the potatoes on the barbecue for 10-15 minutes, turning often, until golden, tender and piping hot. Serve with the barbecued ketchup.
Recipes and images courtesy of Waitrose & Partners
Method
Mince the seitan chunks by using a small hand grinder and transfer to a bowl.
Crumble the tempeh in your fingers and add to the seitan.
Heat the oil in a pan and add the ground seitan and crumbled tempeh.
Stir well to coat in oil and then add the shoyu sauce and water stir and then cover.
Simmer on low heat for about 15 minutes or until all liquid is absorbed.
Return the ingredients to the mixing bowl.
Warm the wok or pan and add the oil.
Stir in the garlic, celery, carrots, shallots, mushrooms, herbs and seasonings. Mix to coat all the contents in oil.
Add the mirin and shoyu and pop the lid on the pan and cook on low heat for 5 minutes.
Place this mixture into the seitan/tempeh bowl and mix well. Sprinkle the flour on top and using a spatula blend and fold until you achieve a solid consistency.
I then prefer to chill the mixture for one hour or more in the fridge to allow the mixture to stiffen.
To make the burgers simply take one heaped tablespoon of mixture and roll in your hands, squeezing and then flatten into a burger shape.
Warm the sunflower oil in a deep based pan and add the burgers, fry on each side for 5 minutes until crisp and golden.
Delicious served on toasted sourdough. Spread vegan mayonnaise on the bread; add a hefty layer of rocket or other salad greens (pre-dressed) in your favourite salad dressing.  Pop on a burger and top with some homemade pickles or relish, sliced tomatoes or whatever your heart desires.
Method
Serves 6.
Preparation
Start by preheating your oven to 220℃ / 200℃ / gas mark 7 / 425F.
Place the aubergine, cauliflower and red pepper in a roasting tray and scatter over the salt. Drizzle over 2 tablespoons of the oil, toss everything together and then spread out in a single layer. Roast in the oven for 15-20 minutes until the vegetables are soft and tinged with brown.
Place the Korma sauce in a pan and add the roasted vegetables.
Bring to a simmer and bubble gently for 5 minutes.
Scatter with the toasted flaked almonds + the fresh coriander and serve with turmeric rice.
Preparation
Serves 2-4, depending on portion size!
Method
Preheat your oven to 220C
Drain and rinse a can of chickpeas in cold water. Pour onto a clean tea towel and dry off as much of the moisture as possible. Pour into a bowl and add a splash of olive oil and a half a teaspoon of each of the following: cayenne pepper, oregano, celery salt and garlic granules (I made up this mix when I was trying to find a recipe for roasted chickpeas but didn’t quite have the right spices/herbs in stock – it is now my favourite, but you can experiment with any flavours you like really), and mix well. Pour onto a baking sheet so that all the chickpeas are flat and roast for 20 minutes. Set aside.
At the same time the chickpeas are roasting you can also roast the tomatoes. I simply lay my halved tomatoes out on a small baking tray, sprinkle with smoked paprika and bung in the oven. No oil or anything else. I think it is personal preference how roasted you like tomatoes, so I leave mine in for slightly less than the chick peas – about 15 minutes. Once cooked to your liking, set aside.
While the chickpeas and tomatoes are roasting, make your zoodles. You basically want to zoodle as much of the three zucchini as possible. (This is a really fun thing to make with someone else, as you can have ‘Who can make the best/longest zoodle’ competitions!)
I like my zoodles practically raw, so this next part is pretty quick…
On a very low heat, pour about half a jar of vegan pesto into a pan and add your roast tomatoes and olives. Gradually add the zoodles, mixing all the time to coat them with the pesto mix. Once all mixed in they are ready to serve.
Wash your rocket and put a good handful onto each plate.
Spoon the zoodle mixture on top of the rocket and the sprinkle with as many of the roasted chickpeas as you desire.
Eat!
Method
Place all the ingredients in a blender and process until smooth and creamy.
Best drunk straight away.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Put weetabix in bowl
Add fruit
Pour on milk
Eat!
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves two
Method
Bring a large pan of well salted water to a boil and add in one large pinch of saffron.
Add the pasta and cook until al dente, about 10 minutes or according to package directions.
Meanwhile, heat a frying pan over a high heat and add the roughly torn mushrooms, saute until golden and any released liquids have reduced and evaporated.
Add the spring onions, followed by the cream and stock powder and the second large pinch of saffron.
Turn the heat down and stir until fragrant and thickened slightly.
Taste the sauce for seasoning and add plenty of black pepper and salt if you need – this will depend on the salt level of the stock powder or cube you use.
Drain the pasta, stir most of the parsley into the sauce and toss with the hot pasta.
Divide between pasta bowls and top with the remaining parsley.
Method
Rinse the quinoa and place in a pan big enough to accommodate it along with 3x its volume of water. Bring to the boil, and then reduce the heat and leave to simmer for 12 minutes or until just al dente.
Wash and trim the carrots, beetroot and fennel. Place the baby beetroot into a small pan with 40g of fresh red miso and the sparkling mineral water, bring to the boil and then simmer for 20 minutes.
Thinly slice the carrots, the fennel and savoy cabbage and place in a large mixing bowl, reserve in the fridge while the quinoa and beetroot cook.
Strain the cooked quinoa and place on a tray to cool to room temperature. Remove the cooked beetroot and pass the cooking liquid through a fine sieve. Place the liquid in a food blender with the remaining fresh red miso and the vinegar, and blend on a high setting whilst drizzling in the olive oil to create an emulsified dressing. Put the dressing to the side, keeping it at room temperature.
Peel the beetroot by hand, just pushing off the delicate skins to show off the beautiful colours below. Finely slice the mint and parsley and add to the sliced carrot mixture.
On a serving dish, place the quinoa and then the mixed carrot salad. Add the peeled whole baby beets and finish the dish with the dressing.
Garnish the salad with small mint or parsley leaves and serve.
Method
Mix egg replacer with a few tablespoons of water.
Heat oil in a pan and fry the onion until clear, then add the garlic and cook for a few minutes.
Add egg replacer, polenta and seasonings.
Remove from heat and add quinoa and butternut.
Form into burgers with your hands, and put on a place and refrigerate for at least half and hour. Don’t skip the chilling process.
Cook the burgers on medium heat, and turn over once a crust has been formed. This takes about five minutes.
Serve with salad or steamed vegetables.
Method
Heat a tablespoon or so of olive oil in a small skillet.
Finely chop the spring onion and add to the pan. gently cook over a medium for several minutes before adding the sliced mushrooms. season and sweat for several more minutes.
Finely mince the garlic and add to the pan. let the flavours infuse for a few minutes.
Drain and rinse the butter beans and add to the pan. season generously and heat through, stirring thoroughly so the ingredients are fully combined.
Lastly add the spinach and let it gently wilt before adding a little more salt and pepper.
Serve hot with some roughly chopped flat leaf parsley and sliced scallions.
Preparation
Toppings (optional):
     2 avocado, sliced
    Sliced tomato
    Lettuce leaves
    Grilled onions
    8-10 burger buns
Method
Pierce potatoes (I used 2 large) all over with a fork and place on a paper towel, setting in the microwave. Microwave for 5 minutes, then flip and cook for 5 minutes more. Remove, slice in half and let cool until you can scoop out the flesh.
In a large bowl, coarsely mash beans with a fork. Add in sweet potato and mash together, then add in spices, salt and pepper, minced garlic, vegan egg, bread crumbs and flour. Mix together until combined, then place bowl in the fridge for 20-30 minutes.
Heat a large skillet over medium heat and add 2 tablespoons olive oil. Remove mixture from fridge and form into 8-10 patties, then place in the skillet once hot. Since the mixture can be wet and messy, do not move until they are fully cooked and golden on one side. This takes about 3-5 minutes on each side. Then, add more oil if needed  and flip burgers very gently. Cook for another 3-5 minutes. Toast buns if desired.
Assemble by topping burgers with roasted garlic aioli and toppings!
To make aioli: While burger mixture is chilling, combine aioli ingredients in a bowl until smooth then cover and refrigerate until ready to use.
Preparation
Soak the 1 tbsp of Arame as instructed on the pack. In a separate bowl, soak the shiitake as instructed on the pack and set aside.
Bring 800ml of water to boil in a pot, follow the instruction on the ramen packs and cook the noodles.
Drain both Amara and shiitake, cut the shiitake into thin slices. (Keep the shiitake water and use for stock)
In a frying pan, add the sesame oil with garlic, add the arame and the sliced shiitake mushrooms and sautée for a 1min. Add the pak choi and cook until everything is soft, season with Umami paste chills or ginger and toasted sesame oil.
Place the noodles on the bottom of a deep bowl, topped with the cooked vegetable, spring onions and pour the hot soup over everything. Top with Seaveg crispies and enjoy immediately.
Tip:  Keep the shiitake water and use for stock.
Method
Preheat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
To prepare the butternut, use a sharp knife to top and tail it and then cut lengthways down the middle. Scoop out the seeds and stringy bits using a spoon. Next, slice a criss-cross pattern across the flesh – this ensures the butternut can soak up all of the lovely coconut oil and maple syrup (and helps it to cook more quickly).
Drizzle half of the maple syrup onto each half of the butternut and into the scooped-out cavity, followed by the oil (the oil can be melted in advance, or spread on solid). Sprinkle on the cinnamon and thyme leaves.
Place on a baking tray and cook for 45 minutes to an hour. It may take longer depending on the size of the butternut; just keep an eye on it (and cover with foil if you think it’s at risk of burning). It should turn a lovely caramelised brown, and should be soft, but not mushy.
While the butternut is cooking, prepare the freekeh. This usually involves simmering it in water for about 15 minutes, but check the instructions on the packet.
Chop the onion, garlic and mushrooms and heat the oil in a frying pan. Cook on a medium heat with the dried chilli flakes until the onions are soft and lightly browned. Add the thyme leaves, cherries and pecans and give it all a stir, helping the cherries to absorb the lovely flavours. The aroma is amazing! Add the freekeh, stir to combine and remove from the heat.
To serve, pile some spoonfuls of the lovely stuffing into the butternut and reserve some for the table (or to eat the next day in a tasty salad).
Method
1. Bake Better Naked Southern Fried Goujons in the oven per pack instructions.
2. Guacamole: Halve and carefully stone the avocados, spoon flesh out into a bowl and mash with a fork. Peel 1 shallot and finely chop it then crush garlic and add both to the bowl. Add juice of one lime, deseed and fine chop red chill, chop 10g of coriander, mix all together and check seasoning.
3. Pico de Gallo: quarter the tomatoes, deseed and dice, then chop jalapeno, peel and fine dice shallot. Mix well and check seasoning.
4. Chop gem lettuce. Warm tortillas in the microwave or a dry pan then keep in a tea towel to retain their heat.
5. Build taco: On each tortilla, spread a spoonful of guacamole and a spoonful of Pico de Gallo, next sprinkle gem lettuce, followed by two goujons, smother with Better Naked Southern Fried Mayo and finish with Better Naked Chilli Sauce (sauces available at Tesco from 11th April).
Method
1. Combine all the dry ingredients together in a large bowl.
2. Next, whisk up your OGGS® Aquafaba in a clean bowl for 30 seconds until it’s pale and frothy and then add the oil, lemon juice and milk.
3. Add the dry mixture to the wet mixture, little by little. Whisk until you’ve made a smooth thick batter.
4. Rest the pancake batter in the fridge for 30 minutes…sorry!
5. Once you’ve taken the mixture out from the fridge, fold the chocolate chips in.
6. Heat a non-stick frying pan over a medium heat and add a knob of margarine. Once melted, add a small ladleful of batter into the frying pan and smooth into a rough round with the back of the ladle.
7. Wait until the base of the mixture sets and the top begins to bubble, then flip it over and cook until both sides are golden brown. Repeat until all the batter is used up Serve with lashings of your favourite toppings!
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Prepare the curry paste first. Place the shallots, garlic and ginger in a food processor.
Add the lemongrass, chillies, lime zest and coriander stalks (reserving the leaves) and whizz the mixture until finely chopped. You can also make this paste using a pestle and mortar if you prefer.
Heat the sunflower oil in a large sauté pan.
Add the curry paste and cook over a medium heat for 1 minute until the mixture smells fragrant.
Add the aubergine, red pepper and mushrooms and cook for 1 minute stirring frequently until starting to become tender.
Add the coconut milk to the pan with 150ml of water and bring to the boil.
Add the okra, baby corn and bamboo shoots and continue to cook for a further 5 minutes or so until the veggies are tender.
Finally, add the sugar snaps and bean sprouts to the pan and cook for another 30 seconds.
Taste and add a dash of soy sauce or teaspoon of sugar if needed.
Serve the curry in bowls, garnished with coriander leaves and with jasmine rice and lime wedges to squeeze over.
Preparation
Choose from ONE of the four protein options below:
Tempeh, 225g pack. Steam for about 5 minutes then chop into cubes and fry in a little oil and drizzle with soya sauce
Frozen tofu, 225g pack or thereabouts. Freezing tofu gives it a more solid, chewy texture. Chop it into cubes then place in a plastic tub with an airtight lid in the freezer. Defrost before using and fry in hot oil until golden brown and drizzle with soya sauce.
Seitan (wheat gluten). Yakso brand 350g jars from health food shops OR Companion brand plain gluten or veggie chicken, 300g tins from Oriental grocers – drain each of these. Any liquid can be incorporated into the pie’s gravy.
TVP dried chunks, about 10-15, soaked in hot stock for 20-30 minutes until soft enough to cook.
Method
If using tofu, chop it into about 16 cubes and freeze overnight. Remove it from the freezer a few hours before you make the pie.
If using tempeh, it can be chopped with a big sharp knife while frozen. Otherwise leave it to defrost in the fridge a few hours before it is needed. Prepare as above.
If using TVP chunks, soak them in hot stock for a few minutes while you prepare everything else. Drain and squeeze gently before adding to pie.
If using seitan/gluten, drain, reserve liquid and set aside until ready.
Pre-heat oven to 225°C/450°F/Gas Mark 7.
Heat olive oil in a medium-large saucepan.
Sauté (gently fry) onion and garlic until onion is translucent – about 5 minutes. Add mushrooms and cook for 3-4 minutes.
Add the protein option of choice and gently stir in with rest of vegetables to coat with oil.
Make the gravy as above then add the mustard, herbs, soya sauce and sherry/wine and mix in well.
Add the peas, porcini mushrooms, gravy mixture and all other ingredients to the pie filling (except the pastry and soya milk).
Stir carefully to mix in well, taste and season if necessary, then turn down heat and leave to simmer.
Meanwhile, choose an oven-proof dish (or individual oven-proof dishes) that will hold the pie filling.
Use its shape to cut out a pastry lid – or several small shapes if you are using individual pie containers. Lightly oil a non-stick baking sheet or tray and place the pastry lid(s) on it. If using several lids space them out on the baking tray.
Brush with a little soya or other plant milk and bake in the hot oven for approximately 20 minutes, or according to the packet instructions – the pastry should be well risen and golden brown.
Spoon the stew into dish or dishes, place the pastry lid(s) on top and serve immediately.
Did you enjoy this pie? Check out this veggie curry pie recipe.
Method
In a large bowl, mix all of the marinade ingredients together until they form a smooth liquid.
Add the cubes of tofu to the bowl and coat thoroughly in the marinade. Set aside.
In a large pan, bring the water to the boil. Once boiling add the rinsed quinoa, stir once, and simmer for ten minutes. At this point, add the desiccated coconut, stir well and simmer for a further five to six minutes. If at any point it begins sticking to the pan, add a little extra water.
After adding the coconut to the quinoa, heat the olive oil in a frying pan over a medium-high heat.
Once the oil is hot, carefully place the cubes of marinated tofu into the frying pan. Fry for around five minutes, turning frequently, until it has browned on all sides.
Remove from the heat and use kitchen paper to remove any excess oil.
Remove the quinoa from the heat, set aside for two minutes, then fluff up with fork.
Serve as it is or with a sauce of your choice.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan dinner recipes.
Method
Put the egg-replacer powder in a large bowl. Add the milk, maple syrup and spices and mix well until smooth.
Heat the coconut oil in a frying pan over a medium heat. Quickly dip one slice of bread into the ‘egg’ mixture and turn until well coated. Add to the pan and fry for 3–4 minutes until well browned, then flip over and brown the other side. Remove from the pan and keep it warm while you repeat with the remaining slices, adding more oil to the pan as needed.
Divide onto plates and top with a spoonful of Raw Cashew Cream, if you like. Drizzle with extra maple syrup and add a good handful of berries, then dust with icing sugar and serve.
Method
Fry the garlic & jalapeños in oil for a minute. Add all the spices, stir and cook until fragrant (a minute or so). Add ketchup, lime and brown sugar. Stir until all the sugar has melted. Partially cover and keep cooking on a low heat until sauce has thickened to the consistency of ketchup.
Drain and thoroughly rinse the tinned jackfruit. Use your hands to tear the strands of jackfruit from the harder core. The fruit will come apart very easily. Put the pulled jackfruit into a bowl and put the cores into another bowl. Once everything has been pulled apart use a knife to finely chop the harder cores. It doesn’t matter if these are still a bit chunky once chopped as it adds more texture to the dish.
Heat oil in pan and add the pulled jackfruit. Cook until it gets a bit grey and loses some moisture. Add the dijon mustard and stir in. Add a little water if it starts to stick to the pan.
Add about half the BBQ sauce (more if you want a very sticky dish) and stir in to coat. Cook until it’s almost starting to get a little crispy and sticking to the pan a little.
Spoon on top of warm corn tacos and top with cos lettuce, guacamole, sour cream, a squeeze of fresh lime and a sprinkle of coriander.
Preparation
For this cheese you will need a glass, ceramic, metal or BPA-free plastic container which will hold a minimum of 1 and ½ cup liquid; this will act as the form to shape the cheese. This recipe yields about 8 ounces.
Method
Line the form with plastic wrap or a double-layer of cheesecloth, being sure to leave some excess hanging over the sides. This will help lift the cheese from the form after firming.
Drain and press the tofu until it is not releasing any more liquid. It is essential to dry the tofu as much as possible for the proper texture. Crumble the tofu into a food processor.
Remove the metal lid from the jar of coconut oil and place the jar in a microwave. Heat just until the solid oil liquefies, about 30 seconds to 1 minute (this will depend upon the solidity of the coconut oil). Alternately, place the jar in about an inch of simmering water and melt the oil in the same manner. Measure ¼ cup and add to the food processor with the remaining ingredients except for the algae powder. Process the contents until very smooth.
Transfer the cheese mixture to a bowl. Dot the cheese in several spots with the algae powder and fold (rather than stir) the cheese over a few times to create swirls of blue-green color. Transfer the cheese to the lined form. Pack the mixture with the back of a spoon and smooth the surface as best you can. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for a minimum of 8 hours. This will ensure that the coconut oil has completely solidified.
Lift the cheese from the container and slice or crumble as needed. Store the cheese wrapped in plastic wrap or in a zip-lock bag in the refrigerator. Because this cheese is made with miso, a fermented product, the flavor will continue to develop as it ages. Try aging the cheese for a minimum of one week before using for the best flavor.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Makes 8 – 10 big slices.
Method
Soak the dried apples in the apple juice for an hour.
To make the crust, pulse all the ingredients in a blender until a rough crumble is formed. You will need to scrape down the sides with a spatula at least a couple of times. The crust is ready when it is sticky between your fingers – the fats will slowly be released as you blend the nuts. Gently press the crust down with your fingers into a shallow pie dish or plate roughly 23cm in diameter, with a loose bottom or springform action. Press down around the edge with a spoon to make it look neat and tidy, then pop into the fridge for 1 hour to firm up.
To make the filling, drain the dried apples, which should now be soft and plump. Core and chop the fresh apples, leaving the peel on, and toss them in the lemon juice to stop them going brown. Put half the fresh apples into a blender with the dates, cinnamon, nutmeg, vanilla extract, maple syrup and salt, and pulse until well combined. Pour in a little of the apple juice from the dried apples if the filling is too thick. Add the rest of the fresh apples and dried apples, then spoon on to the pie crust and smooth out.
To make the topping, mix together the pecans, dates and vanilla in a bowl and spread over the top of the pie to form a nice crust. Sprinkle with the cinnamon.
Cover and place in the fridge for an hour to chill. Carefully slice and serve at room temperature
Method
If you want you can cook the sauerkraut for about 15 minutes so that it becomes softer, but uncooked sauerkraut is also very tasty and crispy!
Cut the onion into half rings and stir fry in a little oil until lightly browned. Cut the pickles and wash the lettuce.
Heat the grill pan or BBQ and grill the sausages in approx. 8 minutes until brown and cooked.
Cut the baguette in half and grill the inside in the grill pan or BBQ, cover with mustard and put leaves of lettuce on it. Eventually add the sausage.
Method
Start boiling the brown rice.
Melt the cacao butter buttons.
Fry off the onions, add the chilli and tomatoes, before adding the cumin, oregano, cacao powder and syrup.
Add the black beans.
Mix the pea protein in 50-100ml of water, add to the mix then reduce down to the desired consistency.
Stir in the shredded spinach at the end.
Serve with boiled brown rice and top with fresh coriander.
Did you enjoy this recipe? You might like this vegan chilli non carne too!
Preparation
There is no source or reference for this recipe, it’s considered folk wisdom here. I learned it from Grandma who probably learned it from hers and so on. Some people refer to this dough as 1-2-3-Teig (1-2-3-Dough) because that’s how the ingredients are measured: one part sugar, two parts fat, three parts parts flour. These proportions refer to the weight of the ingredients, they don’t work with volume measurements. I converted the measurements for my standard recipe for you. It makes about 40 cookies (2 inches in diameter each):
1 part = 100 grams sugar = 1/2 cup
2 parts = 200 grams fat (vegan butter or margarine) = 7/8 cup
3 parts = 300 grams flour = 2 cups + 1 TBL
As you can see, there is no additional binding agent. Which is why this dough only works if you keep everything cold. Cold ingredients, cold kitchen supplies, cold hands. I mix it in a metal bowl that I cool under very cold water before use so even the mixing bowl is cold. The butter needs to be very cold and firm. If you’re using vegan margarine I recommend you put it in the freezer for an hour or so to make it firmer.
Method
Cut the very cold butter in chunks and place them in a cold, large bowl. Sift the flour over the butter chunks. Mix flour and butter chunks with your hands quickly, using your fingers to squish the butter chunks. Both ingredients will make a smooth dough in about a minute. Don’t knead too long, it gets crumbly very quickly.
When the flour and butter are just combined, add the sugar and knead in quickly. As soon as all ingredients are mixed, stop kneading. Form the dough into a roll of about 2 inches in diameter, firmly wrap the roll into cling film and keep it in the fridge for at least an hour. I keep it in a metal dish and add the knife I’m going to use to cut the cookies. That way, the knife is cold, too.
Set a timer so you don’t forget to preheat the oven to 180C/356F at least 15 minutes before the cooling time for the dough is over. Take the dough out of the fridge and unwrap. It will be very firm now. You can now cut the dough in even slices of about 0.4 cm / 1/16 inch.
Line a baking tray with parchment and even the edges of the cookies a bit with your fingers before you place them on the baking tray. I bake them in two batches, the dough makes about 40 cookies, they wouldn’t fit on one tray. Put the tray in the oven and bake for about 9-10 minutes. I start to watch the cookies after 8 minutes because they burn quickly. They will melt a little while baking. When the sides
start to brown, they’re done but still tender. Take the cookies from the baking tray quickly and let them cool on a cooling tray. Even if you work with two baking trays, it’s not enough to take the tray out of the oven. It’s still hot enough to burn the cookies after taking them out of the oven. They are still a little soft when they’re fresh from the oven and need to cool completely to firm up and turn crispy.
Done.
The one negative thing about those shortcrust cookies? They need to rest for a couple of days in a cookie jar or tin to reach their perfect texture.
Once you’ve mastered working with this shortcrust dough, the variations are endless:
Sprinkle them with sugar before baking.
Add lemon zest to the dough and cover the cookies with lemon icing after cooling.
Add chopped hazelnuts to the dough.
Stick two cookies together with a layer of homemade raspberry fudge in the middle. Dip those double decker cookies in dark chocolate and let them cool.
Guten Appetit!
Method
Add the gluten free oats, water and your chosen vegan milk to a pan.
Cook over a medium heat, until warm, add the cacao butter drops and the pinch of salt.
Once the porridge nears your desired consistency, take the pan off the heat and stir in the pea protein. If it is too thick add in an extra splash of your chosen vegan milk.
Blend up the berries, transfer the porridge to a bowl and top with the blended berries and flaked almonds!
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 200°C / 392°F. Top and tail the carrots then slice them into1/2cm thick rings. Add them to a large baking tray, sprinkle with small pinches of salt and pepper and drizzle with a light splash of olive oil. Toss through with your hands then roast for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, remove the stems from the red peppers and dice them. Then top and tail the courgettes and peel the red onions then slice both into 1/2cm rings. Finely chop the rosemary leaves.
Add the red peppers, courgettes, red onion and rosemary to the baking tray with the carrots along with small pinches of salt and pepper and a light drizzle of olive oil. Toss with a spoon to combine everything together. Roast in the oven for 15 minutes.
Drizzle a little olive oil in a medium saucepan on a medium heat. Peel and dice the garlic cloves then throw them into the saucepan and fry for 2 minutes. Next add the tinned tomatoes and small pinches of salt and pepper. Bring the sauce to the boil then reduce the heat and simmer for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, add the vegan butter to a frying pan over a medium heat. Once melted, add the flour, stir to combine and fry for 2 minutes. Pour in the cream and whisk regularly so that the sauce becomes smooth. Gradually pour in the milk, whisking continuously so the sauce remains smooth. Season with pinches of salt and pepper, then add the nutritional yeast. Continue stirring until the sauce begins to thicken.
To build the lasagne, first add a few large spoonfuls of the tomato sauce to a large roasting dish and spread evenly. Then layer with 4 sheets of lasagne, followed by a few spoonfuls of bechamel. Next evenly spread 1/3 of the roasted vegetables on top. Repeat one more time starting again with a few spoonfuls of tomato sauce until you have 2 layers of lasagne sheets. Next later with a few spoonfuls of tomato sauce, 4lasagne sheets, and a few spoonfuls of bechamel. Next evenly spread the pesto over the bechamel and then layer with the remaining roasted vegetables. Finish with the last few spoonfuls of tomato sauce. Next sprinkle over the grated vegan cheese and finally spoon the remaining bechamel over the top. Spread the bechamel out evenly over the top of the lasagne.
Roast in the oven for 30-35 mins or until golden on top. Leave to sit for at least 10 mins before serving.
Want more recipes like this? Sign up to Veganuary to have them sent straight to your inbox. We’ll also send you meal plans, nutritional advice, celebrity cookbooks and more (and it’s all for free!)
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Simply place everything in a small food blender, or crush everything up in a large pestle and mortar to keep it really chunky.
Add more or less of any of the flavourings to your taste.
Method
Hydrate the sundried tomatoes in hot water and set aside.
Briefly blitz the pumpkin seeds in a food processor – I like to retain some of the texture, rather than create a powder.
Add the remaining ingredients to the pumpkin seeds and pulse until you have a paste. This is quite a thick pesto – if you want it to be more liquid, add more oil.
Store in a sterilised jar in the fridge. It should keep for at least a week.
Method
Heat the oil in a pan over medium heat. Add the rice and stir continually until the rice has turned golden brown, around 7-8 minutes.
Add the water, tomatoes, onion, garlic, veggie cube, salt, cumin and chilli to a blender and blitz until well blended (it’s ok if there are still small bits left in the mixture).
Once the rice is golden, carefully add the mixture to the pan. Bring to a boil and then reduce the heat to a low simmer. Cover and allow to cook until the water has been absorbed and the rice is soft and fluffy, around 15-20 minutes.
Once the rice is cooked, remove from the heat, add the lime juice and fluff with a fork. Adjust seasoning to taste. Enjoy as a side dish to tacos or on its own with some avocado and salsa.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
You will need a 9 ½ x 6 ½ inch/24cm x 16cm baking tin for this recipe
Method
Dip:
Place the cashew nuts in a bowl and cover with water, leave to soak overnight or for a minimum of 4 hours.
Once soaked, drain the cashews from the water and place in a high powered blender with the juice of 1 lemon and 100ml of water. Blitz together, stopping regularly to scrape down the sides, until you have a smooth and creamy consistency. You can do this in a food processor (the smaller the bowl the better) but it will take you a lot longer and you may find that the final result is a little grainier than it should be. Transfer the mixture to a bowl, cover and refrigerate until ready to use.
Next, peel and finely slice the onion into half moons. Heat the garlic oil into a heavy based frying pan until hot, add the sliced onion, the remaining lemon juice, a good pinch of sea salt and the brown sugar. Fry over a low heat until the onions are soft and caramelised – about 25 minutes.
Fold the onions into the cashew cream mixture until combined, season to taste and then chill until ready to use. This spread will last for up to 3 days if refrigerated.
Foccacia:
Preheat the oven to 200c and liberally grease the baking tin with olive oil. Place the flour, baking powder, xanthan gum, egg replacer and oil into a food processor, pour over of the water and blitz until you have a smooth and creamy dough – it should be dropping consistency but not completely liquid.
Alternatively, make up the egg replacer in a large mixing bowl, add the remaining dry ingredients, stir together and then add the remaining water, bit by bit, beating together until smooth and creamy.
Pour the mixture into the tin, level the top with the back of a spoon, pushing it into the corners of the tin and spreading it evenly. Now, use your fingertip to mark little dents and hills all over the dough – because it is such a liquid batter, you won’t be able to make solid holes, instead, just create little peaks and troughs in the surface of the bread. Now scatter over the rosemary leaves (if using), drizzle over the olive oil and sprinkle a little sea salt over the top.
Bake in the oven for 35 minutes or until just golden and crisp on top. Remove from the oven, turn out onto a wire rack and leave to cool for a few minutes before serving.
Preparation
Serves 2.
Preheat your over to 220c.
Method
Put the tamari, water and cayenne into a bowl, add the cauliflower and mix until all of the cauliflower is covered. Put the cauliflower onto a baking tray.
Add the mushrooms to the bowl and mix into the liquid. Put them onto the baking tray.
The sweet potato doesn’t need any oil so just put those onto the tray as they are, making sure they do not overlap.
Bake until just cooked, this should take around 10-15 minutes.
For the hummus blend all of the ingredients with a hand blender or in a food processor until smooth. Add a little more water if the blend needs more liquid to turn and blend the mixture well.
Pour into a bowl and serve with the tamari baked veg dippers.
Method
To Make the Brownies
Preheat the oven to 170c. Line a brownie tray with baking parchment.
In a small bowl, mix the psyllium husk powder with the water and set aside.
In a medium saucepan over low heat, add the vegan butter and allow to melt completely.
To the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, add the cocoa powder and the espresso powder and mix well. Add the melted butter along with the caster sugar and the psyllium egg mixture and beat well.
In a medium bowl, combine the flour and the salt. Add half of the flour mixture to the stand mixer and beat until combined. Add half of the plant milk and beat until combined. Add the remaining flour mixture and beat until combined followed by the remaining plant milk.
Remove the bowl from the stand mixer and add the chocolate chips. With a silicone spatula, mix until the chocolate chips are evenly distributed.
Pour or spoon the brownie batter into the prepared baking tray. Place in the oven and bake for 35 minutes. The edges should be quite firm but the centre will be a little jiggly when you remove it from the oven.
Place on a cooling rack and allow to cool fully to room temperature. Once cooled, chill in the fridge for at least 30 minutes.
To Make the Caramel
In a large saucepan add all the caramel ingredients except for the vanilla and the salt. Place over a medium/low heat and stir with a heat-proof spatula until all the butter is melted and the sugars dissolved completely.
Using a probe thermometer, bring the caramel to 115c (you may have to increase the heat to get it there, but trust me, it will get there!).
Remove from the heat, add the vanilla and salt and stir continuously (off the heat!) for around 10 minutes while the caramel cools. It will thicken dramatically!
Once thick, set aside and allow to cool for a further 5-10 minutes (it should still be runny enough to pour or spoon over the chilled brownies, so keep checking the texture regularly).
Pour or spoon over the brownies in the tin, even out with your spoon and then return to the fridge for at least 30 minutes.
To Make the Chocolate
Chop the chocolate roughly into small pieces. Place in a medium heat-proof bowl and sit over a small pan of boiling water. Allow the steam from the water to heat the bowl and melt the chocolate, stirring constantly with a spatula.
Pour the chocolate over the chilled caramel and then set aside on the counter to set fully (not in the fridge). Once set, slice with a hot knife (otherwise the chocolate will crack) into squares or bars and serve!
Preparation
First, preheat your oven to 350 degrees. Then, line 12 spots in a cupcake tin with paper liners.
In a small bowl, combine the wet ingredients: almond milk, apple cider vinegar, vanilla extract, and oil.  Set aside. You may notice the milk will start to curdle, but don’t worry! It’s suppose to.
In a separate medium-sized bowl, combine the dry ingredients: flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, salt. Stir well.
Slowly add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients while stirring.  Make sure all flour is scraped from the sides and bottom of the bowl.  Be mindful to not over mix.
Spoon the batter into the cupcake liners just until they are about 3/4 full. Use a second cupcake tin with extra paper liners, if needed.
Bake on the top rack of your preheated oven for 19-20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted down the center of each cupcake comes out clean with no batter. Allow them to sit in the tin for 5 minutes before carefully transferring them to a cooling rack.
 Cool completely before frosting, about 1 1/2 – 2 hours.
While the cupcakes cool, use this time to make your frosting. Using an electric stand or hand mixer, cream the shortening on a medium speed for about 30 seconds.
Then, add half of the powdered sugar and half of the almond milk and mix on high for about 30 seconds.
Next, add the salt and remaining sugar and almond milk.  Mix on high again for another 30 seconds. If you feel the frosting should be slightly thicker, add a spoonful or so more of powdered sugar.  For slightly thinner frosting, add a splash or two of almond milk – but be careful – a little goes a long way!
Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a spoon or spatula and incorporate what was stuck to the sides into the frosting.
Frost cupcakes the old fashioned way with a butter knife or offset spatula, or place the frosting in a pastry bag fitted with a decorating tip!
Enjoy!
Method
Place a sieve over a deep pot or pan. Lay the cheese cloth in the sieve. I fold mine so it’s quadruple thickness. (You could use a thin, clean tea towel if you don’t have cheesecloth). This is where you will pour your milk to make the cheese when it is ready. It’s important that your pot is deep so the cheese doesn’t come into contact with the liquid.
In a large pan, over medium-high heat, simmer the soy milk until it reaches a light boil. Stir constantly with a whisk and watch the milk carefully so it does not boil over. It is important to continue stirring the entire time your milk is on the hob.
Once the soy milk comes to a light, rolling boil, add the lemon juice and stir. After about 30 seconds you should see some curdling start to occur (the solid of the milk will start to separate from the liquids).
Add the sea salt. Turn down the heat and stir for another minute or so. At this point your milk should be really curdled. You may see chunks or your curdled milk may be of a finer grain due to the whisk.
Stir in the nutritional yeast (dependent on how cheesy you want it to taste) and apple cider vinegar into the milk mixture and whisk lightly.
Pour the milk over the cheese cloth. Be careful because the milk will be very hot.
Tightly tie the cheesecloth at the top. Place a weight on top of the cheese cloth to help it drain faster and the cheese to solidify. Anything will do such as cans of food or a stack of ramekins.
Place in the fridge overnight. In the morning, the whey will have separated from the milk into the bottom bowl. Carefully unwrap your cheese.
Melt the coconut oil (20-30 seconds in the microwave on high will do). Put the cheese and oil in a blender and blend for around 30 seconds. It will be very thick but you just want to get an even texture. The oil gives the cheese the right ‘mouth feel’.
Transfer to a small dish, cover and refrigerate. This will last up to 2 weeks in the fridge.
Preparation
Strawberries, raspberries, apples, even rhubarb would all work (the latter two would have to be cooked down with a little sugar first) and then topped with a generous spread of Vanilla Buttercream Icing.  They’re perfect for an afternoon tea or a children’s tea party.
Makes 12 Cupcakes
Method
Preheat the oven to 180c and line a 12 hole muffin or cupcake tray with paper cases.
Hull the strawberries and place in a mixing bowl.  Use a fork to mash the strawberries until pulpy and juicy.
Pour the oil into a large mixing bowl, add the sugar and beat together until combined.  Stir in the flaxseed and water mixture until combined (it will be slightly tacky in consistency).  Add the strawberries and flour and use a metal spoon to fold them into the mixture until mixed.
Spoon the mixture evenly into the cupcake cases, level the tops and bake in the oven for 20 minutes.  Remove from the oven and transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
Meanwhile, make the buttercream icing.  Place the margarine, rice milk and vanilla extract into a mixing bowl, sift over half of the icing sugar and use an electric whisk to mix the ingredients together.  I recommend using an electric whisk as it takes some time to get the icing mixture to the right creamy consistency – about 4 minutes.  By all means do it by hand but it may take you much longer.  Sift in the remaining icing sugar and continue to whisk until thick, glossy and creamy.  Place the icing in the fridge to chill until ready to spread.
Once the cupcakes are completely cool, spread liberally with the icing and decorate with the fresh strawberries.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Heat cast iron skillet or heavy-duty saucepan to med heat. On 1/2 sheet pan lay out all mushrooms in whole clusters, drizzle and lightly dab 1 t of oil to the mushrooms. Apply a light coat in which the seasoning will stick to, sprinkle dry seasoning then add to heated cast iron pan and weigh down with additional cast iron pan, a brick wrapped in tin foil or heavier cover to create a press. Cook for 2 -3 minutes then flip over being careful not to tear the mushroom breasts. Sprinkle a bit more of seasoning and then press with pan again. Repeat this process several times until mushrooms are condensed and pressed into light golden brown pieces with no liquid in the pan.
NOTE: Depending on the mushrooms (cause they’re all different) some will leach more liquid than others. Don’t fret it might take a couple minutes longer to cook but the liquid will dissipate. After they are pressed and golden, remove mushrooms from heat and cool.
In medium-size bowl or container add pressed shrooms and Haute sauce to marinate for at least an hour or overnight.
In three separate bowls get the breading station ready.
Seasoned flour with a little salt and pepper
Make Vegan egg wash mixture by following directions on Follow Your Heart Vegan Egg
Make panko crumb crust by adding panko, BBQ potato chips, and seasoning to food processor and pulse until coarse grind consistency.
Lightly dredge each piece of shroom, first in flour to coat, then in vegan egg mixture, then in seasoned panko, so it’s fully coated.
In medium cast iron pan add oil so it’s between 1/4 & 1/2-inch deep and heat on medium heat, once hot begin to fry each piece for several minutes on each side until golden brown, when done let sit on newspaper or paper bag to catch excess oil.
NOTE: if you’re doing a big batch and allow to cool – pieces may be reheated before serving by assembling on a baking sheet and reheat in a 350-degree oven for 5 – 10 minutes until hot.
Method
Put the onions, wine, balsamic vinegar and 1c water in a frying pan. Bring to the boil on a high heat then reduce to a medium heat
Cook for 20 minutes until the onions are soft. If the pan gets dry add a little more water
Put the water, stock, salt, garlic and quinoa in a pan
Simmer for 15 minutes or until the quinoa is very soft
Add the watercress, blend with a hand blender
Add pepper and salt to taste
Cook on a low heat for 10 minutes
To serve put the soup in a bowl and gently place a large spoonful of onions on the top
Preparation
Make the seitan following the instructions below:
There are loads of recipes for seitan and I am working my way through them, learning as I go. For this recipe I tried one by Isa Chandra (Chicken Stylee Seitan, available on thePPK.com) and because it was a big batch I tried a couple of different ways of cooking it. I think either way would work and I would definitely try the boiled method for this recipe next time.
I followed the recipe by Isa Chandra up to the point of cooking. At that point, I separated the seitan dough in to two batches. With one, I followed the recipe, gentry cooking the seitan in stock. This was the most successful of my attempts so far. It is really, really important not to let it boil. I got all tech about it and dragged out the jam thermometer. I kept it between 94 and 98 degrees.
Anyway, for this particular version, I took the other half of the seitan and formed it in to small nuggets. Keep them on the small side because they will expand on cooking. I put them on an oiled baking tray and covered them with tin foil and baked for 20 – 30 mins at 180oC. Keep an eye on them, they are only small so it won’t take much to burn them. My thinking with this was that it keep them dry and therefore make the coating stick better.
If you have the time, the stock method would work too but you would want to leave them to drain for quite a while and get as much stock out of them as you can before trying to do the coating.
If you don’t fancy making your own seitan or you have your own preferred product or recipe, you could just use that. If you are still searching for that perfect recipe, give Isa’s recipe a go.
Method
You will need 2 bowls and a drying rack to complete all of the coating process and to also drain off the seitan once cooked.
Start off by making the vegan butter milk. Combine the ingredients and then let sit for 5 to 10 mins whilst you get all the ingredients for the flour together and mix them well in a bowl. By the time you have got them all sorted, your buttermilk should be good to go.
In your second bowl, mix the buttermilk with the hot sauce and salt. You are now ready to being the coating process.
Add the seitan to the buttermilk and let soak for 10 mins. One soaked, add the pieces a few at a time to the flour and coat well before putting on the drying rack and leaving for another 5 to 10 mins. You can use this time to get your oil heated up. You want it at 180oC. Be careful, don’t burn your house down or anything.
Once the seitan pieces have sat in the coating for 10 mins, we repeat the coating process. This helps more of the flour stick and also creates all sort of lumps, bumps and crevices which are going to make this really good. Straight in to the buttermilk, straight in to the flour and then in to the 180oC oil.
The most important tip I found was to leave the pieces along for at least 3 minutes otherwise you risk knocking the coating off. Overall mine took about 8 mins to get nice and golden. My pan was not big enough to cook the whole lot and yours probably won’t be either so I did a couple of batches and kept the first batch warm in a low oven. I chucked the first batch in the oil again for a minute at the end, just because.
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 180°C. Add the chickpea flour, stock, baking soda, yeast and turmeric in a bowl and whisk together until smooth. Leave for 30 minutes.
Sautée your vegetables in a large skillet pan until just tender. Pour the chickpea batter into skillet and transfer to the oven to cook for 25-30 minutes, or until the top appears light golden brown. Remove from the oven and allow to cool for around 15 minutes. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 4 days.
Preparation
This recipe also calls for soaked dates: I recommend you cover the dates in a little boiling water (just enough to cover) for an hour before making. Alternatively you can use medjool dates (don’t forgot to remove the stones!) which are much softer and also larger, so halve the number required.  It’s also really nice to use a mix of tomatoes if you can – yellow, red, plum, cherry, heirloom etc. It just looks so beautiful in the bowl, but if you can only get standard tomatoes then I recommend going for a mix of large and cherry, all on the vine for added flavour.
Method
Place half of the tomatoes (choose the prettier ones to chop up later) into a blender with the juice of the orange and lemon, clove of garlic, cider vinegar, dates, cumin, chilli and oil.
Blitz until completely smooth and then add the fresh herbs and pulse very briefly until just incorporated -if you blend the herbs too long the gazpacho will turn brown instead of a rich red colour.
Finely dice the remaining tomatoes, cucumber and onion.  Place in a large mixing bowl and then pour the blended mixture over the top.
Season to taste, stir well and refrigerate for as long as possible before serving – if you make this the day before and leave in the fridge overnight you’ll find that the flavours really develop.
To serve, pour the gazpacho into bowls and top with a drizzle of good quality olive oil.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Scoop the flesh out from the avocados and add to a blender, along with the cocoa powder, sweetener and milk. Blend until smooth and creamy.
Divide the mousse equally and spoon into your serving glasses. Leave in the fridge for at least 30 minutes before serving
Add the Nākd Cocoa Delight bars to a food processor and grind until it turns to rubble.
To serve, spoon the crumbled Nākd bars on top of the mousse pots and top with a few edible flowers.
Method
Remove the base of the green sea fingers and finely chop them until they form a soft paste.
Mix in a large bowl the glutinous rice porridge, red chili powder, prepared green sea fingers, prepared soybean, soy sauce and Korean raspberry extract. Season the mixture using salt (about 1 Tbsp). Leave the paste to rest for about 2 hours.
Mix three handfuls of salt into a large bowl of water and soak the cabbage.
Cut the cabbages vertically in half and make small cuts in the roots. Mix three handfuls of salt into a large bowl of water and soak the cabbage for a minute or so.
Spread a generous amount of salt in between the leaves (coarse sea salt works best); add even more to the stems. Leave for as long as possible to rest – from 3 to 12 hours.
Remove any excess brine from the cabbages and spread the prepared seasoning paste between the leaves.
Cover the cabbages using the outermost leaves and store them in containers to ferment.
Method
Add ingredients in order to small bowl.
Mix until creamy, then chill.
To garnish, drizzle over some olive oil and sprinkle on some smoked paprika before serving.
Preparation
Serves 6.
Method
In a large bowl mix together the flour, salt, quick yeast and sugar.
Add the water and roughly mix it into the flour.
While the dough is still lumpy add the oil and knead well until it feels smooth and pliable.
Add the seeds and knead until they are combined into the dough.
Leave the dough covered with a tea towel, in a draught free place, for it to double in size (This should take about an hour).
Turn dough out onto a floured surface and knead the dough firmly for several minutes.
Shape the dough and put it into a 1kg bread tin.
Cover with a clean tea towel and leave dough to rise for about 25 minutes in a warm place.
Bake in a preheated oven 35/40 minutes.
Method
Put a splash of water in a small saucepan, add the rhubarb and dates, put the lid on and simmer for 5-10 minutes until the rhubarb is soft.
Put the rhubarb and dates on a plate to cool. Once cool take the dates and blend with the milk and kernel butter. Pour this into a bowl and top with the rhubarb.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Score eggplants across the surface in both directions.
Blend glaze ingredients together until smooth. Apply glaze to eggplants, making sure it gets in between the cracks of the score lines and marinate for at least 15 minutes.
Top with the chickpeas that were tossed with the chilli and paprika. Add a pinch of salt.
Bake for 25 minutes, basting with the glaze halfway through cooking time and again once they come out of the oven.
Top with the chopped nuts, green onions and chilli peppers. Serve immediately.
Method
Preheat oven to Gas Mark 4 / 180 C
Line a baking tray with baking paper, and then grease it with coconut oil
In a food processor, combine bananas, almond butter, coconut oil, date syrup, cinnamon, nutmeg, and half of the blueberries. Mix until completely combined and you have a thick paste mixture.
In a frying pan, gently toast the nuts and seeds for 3-5 minutes, until slightly brown. Leave to cool. Once cooled, roughly chop the nuts.
In a large bowl, mix the oats, hemp powder, chia seeds, coconut, cacao nibs, the rest of the blueberries and toasted nuts/seeds.
Stir the banana paste mix into the oat mix and combine.
Pour mix into your lined tray. Push down with a spatula to ensure mixture is evenly packed.
Bake for 30-40 mins, until lightly golden. (These bars are quite soft, if you wish for them to be slightly crunchier, then bake for 10-15 more mins, but keep an eye on them so they don’t burn!)
Leave to cool for 10 mins, then tip onto wire rack and let cool completely.
Method
Heat the coconut oil in a wok or large frying pan on a medium-high. Add the lemongrass, chilli, ginger and spring onion and cook for 1 minute stirring to prevent burning.
Throw in the peppers and sugar snap peas and cook for 2 minutes. Stir in the nigella seeds and coconut pieces and cook for a further 2 minutes.
Take off the heat and stir through the Thai basil leaves. Season with a little salt.
Serve with rice noodles.
Method
Dressing:
Put everything in an empty jar and shake vigorously until it emulsifies.
Cous cous:
Place the cous cous and taco seasoning in a bowl. mix to combine and cover with freshly boiled water. put a plate on top and leave to soak for ten minutes.
fluff with a fork and stir through the peas, coriander and half the dressing.
Serve alone or in a crunchy taco – top with more dressing before eating!
Method
Put the bananas in the freezer at least 4 hours in advance.
Throw the (peeled) frozen bananas into the blender along with the non-dairy milk, coconut butter and vanilla extract and then blend until smooth.
Add in the choc-chips and stir by hand and serve.
Did you like this recipe? Check out our double chocolate vegan ice cream too!
Method
Pour rice cereal into a large bowl.
Heat syrup with a pinch of salt in a saucepan over low heat. When syrup liquefies, add the peanut butter. Stir until well-combined, pour over rice cereal. Mix well with a wooden spoon.
Once thoroughly mixed and cooled to room temperature, stir in chocolate chips.
Pour the mixture into an 8-inch x 8-inch or 9-inch x 13-inch baking dish.
Wet wooden spoon lightly and press mixture evenly into pan.
Let cool for one hour before cutting into squares or bars.
By Allison Bailey.
Method
Sauté 1/2 of the onion and one clove of crushed garlic in olive oil until softened. Add puy lentils, sauté for a further minute then add 1 1/2 to 2 pints of stock and simmer until lentils are fully cooked and soft. Add further stock as needed. You are aiming for them to absorb most of the liquid without leaving too much broth.
Remove the hard core of the tomatoes and place whole on a baking tray, along with 3 garlic cloves. Roast on high heat until well roasted and starting to blacken. Blitz with handblender. Set aside.
Remove ends and slice aubergines lengthways, approx 1.5cm thickness. Drizzle with olive oil and salt and pepper. Roast on high heat until golden brown and soft. Set aside.
Sauté the remaining onion, carrot, red pepper, and celery, then add cooked lentils, soy, one bay leaf, a handful of fresh marjoram, and a sprig of thyme. Add blended tomato sauce (or tinned tomatoes and garlic if using) and the tomato puree. Bring to boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Add 1/2 teaspoon of salt and pepper, then taste to check seasoning and adjust according to taste.
Heat butter in a small pan, add a pinch of salt and plain flour and cook to make a roux, gently cooking the paste for 2-3 minutes. Then slowly add milk, whisking all the time until reach a creamy consistent sauce. Add a bay leaf, and simmer for 2 minutes.
Layer some bechamel sauce on the bottom of a large deep baking dish and cover with pasta. Then layer over lentil and tomato mix, followed by a layer of roasted aubergine, allowing the aubergine to overlap to create a nice thick layer. Add another layer of lentil mix and then top with another layer of pasta, on top of the pasta pour creamy béchamel sauce. Sprinkle top with cheese and salt and pepper.
Bake in a medium hot oven at 190 C for 30-40 mins until bubbling and top is golden brown. Serve with a fresh green salad.
Love this recipe? Get recipes like this sent straight to your inbox when you sign up to Veganuary. We’ll also send you our celebrity cookbook, meal plans, nutritional advice, budgeting tips and more – all for free. What are you waiting for?
Method
Put oven on a low heat.
Have a large oven tray lined with paper, or a non stick sheet ready.
If you don’t grow your own then buy a bag of fresh kale. Wash well and take out as many of the tough stalks as you can. Drain but no need to dry.
In a large deep frying pan put all your kale it will seem a lot but it will soon go down in size. Put about a tablespoonful of rapeseed oil over the kale, and stir fry over a high heat until soft.
Add a sprinkle of salt and toss.
Add nutritional yeast flakes 2 – 3 tablespoons, and stir in..
Now spread on to the oven tray and place in the oven. Check after 10 minutes and turn kale over as it should be starting to crisp up.
Place back in the oven and keep checking, putting the outside kale into the middle as this speeds up the crisping.
Store when cool in an air tight container… if you can resist that is!
Method
Place all of the ingredients in a small pan and simmer gently for 2-3 minutes to thicken. Mash down the fruit with a wooden spoon as it cooks. You may need to add a little more water if the mixture is too dry.
For a smoother texture you can then process briefly in a food processor or blender.
Allow to cool then store in the fridge until required. It will keep in the fridge for 3-4 days or you can freeze it for up to 3 months.
Preparation
Preheat oven to 200c or 180 fan-assisted
Toss cauliflower with spices and oil. Place on roasting pan and put in the oven for 15 minutes
Add coconut oil to a deep heavy gauge skillet and cook onions for 2-3 minutes, add curry paste and cook 1 minute
Add coconut milk, sugar, soy and lentils and green beans and simmer low for 5 minutes
For the chutney, add coconut oil to a pan and saute the onions for 3 minutes, then add the rest of the ingredients and cook on a low heat for 8-10 minutes
Once the cauliflower is roasted, add to the pan of lentils
Serve with rice and chutney, garnish with coriander and lime wedges
Method
Firstly, line the cake tin with a sheet of cling film, laying it as smoothly as possible inside the tin.
Next, place the walnuts, coconut and cocoa powder into a food processor and pulse until of a fine breadcrumb consistency.
Add the dates and the pinch of sea salt and continue to pulse, and then add the minimum amount of water, pulsing as you go, until the mixture combines and pulls together.  You can add the remaining water if you feel like the mixture isn’t holding together.
Transfer the base mixture into the cake tin and press down lightly with your fingers to spread it over the base of the tin, then, using a spoon, smooth out the top layer of the mixture so that it forms an even base.
Place in the fridge and leave to chill while you make the topping.
Place the cocoa powder, maple syrup and coconut oil in a blender – I recommend using a high powered blender instead of a food processor as it will give you a creamier result.
Blitz the ingredients until you have a completely smooth, creamy filling – this may take a few minutes.
Pour the chocolate ganache filling over the base of the tart, level the top with the back of a spoon and then chill in the fridge for at least 3 hours before serving.
A little tip, when ready to serve, run a large knife under the hot tap before slicing the tart, repeat for every slice as this will give you the smoothest, leanest slices of tart.
Preparation
This recipe serves 4 to 6 people
Method
Boil a large pot of water and add the pasta until it’s a little undercooked
Heat the olive oil and add the chopped peppers and courgette
Cook for 10 minutes
Put the basil, water, olive oil, lemon juice, avocado, salt, black pepper, and chilli flakes in a blender and create the cream
Before the vegetables are fully cooked, add the chopped tomatoes, pasta and beans
Cook for about 5 minutes
Add the basil cream and stir
Add salt, pepper, and chilli flakes to taste
Garnish with basil leaves
Adapted from Oh She Glows
Method
Soak sticky rice for 4 hours, then pour the water out and steam for 30 minutes.  
Pan-fry OmniMeat until it forms a flat patty, then dice OmniMeat patty and set aside.  
Heat oil in a pan and stir-fry sliced shiitake mushroom and minced ginger until aromatic. Add OmniMeat and stir-fry for a while, then add seasonings and mix well.  
Add fried garlic (optional), water, soaked mushroom water and boil for 10 minutes, set aside. 
Pan-fry diced peppers until aromatic, then mix well with tomato sauce and miso. Add water, sugar and mirin, then cook until thickens. Blend the mixture into smooth paste.  
Mix the steamed sticky rice with sesame oil and the paste, then steam it for another 30 minutes. 
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan Chinese recipes.
Preparation
Serves 1.
This vegan eggnog is made using Cashew milk.
Method
Heat the Cashew milk
Add the maple syrup
Finish with the cinnamon and nutmeg
Method
Scrub and chop the sweet potato and boil until soft with skin still included (approximately 10 minutes). Then drain and place in a mixing bowl.
Crush garlic and chop along with coriander leaves (as small as you can) with a sharp knife.
Add all ingredients into blender or food processor (EXCEPT the gram flour). I find this actually works best  with a hand (immersion) blender. With a hand blender, you can apply downward pressure and get in there nicely… if you use a jug blender or food processor it will work fine if you keep scraping down the sides and loosen the mixture. Alternatively you could go for the real rustic effect and use a strong potato masher to do the job instead. Blend until most of the mixture is broken down. It doesn’t need to be totally smooth; it can be quite rustic.
Once blended add the gram flour and continue to mix in with a spoon. If you leave it on the side for a while (half and hour or half a day) then it will firm up a little making it slightly easier to roll. I sometimes let it stand if I have time, but that’s not essential.
 Chickpea moisture varies from batch to batch. The mixture should be soft and pliable, easy to roll into a ball in your hands. Take a heaped teaspoon worth of mixture and roll a small ball (this should be smaller than a golf ball). The delightful yellowness glow of the turmeric will rub off a bit on your hands. If you’d rather now yellow-out your hands then use extra gram flour to roll with. If your mixture is too soft to roll well, then add a little extra gram flour or use gram flour to roll in.
Place on a lightly oiled baking tray and bake in preheated oven at gas mark 6 or 7 (200˚C to 220˚C/ 400˚F to 425˚F) for approximately 30 minutes or until tanned.
Enjoy!
Method
Lay a piece of baking parchment on a flat surface
Melt the chocolate in a glass bowl in a pan of boiling water
Cut a slit in the top of each apricot
Push a brazil nut into it
Dip each apricot into the chocolate, dip the brazil nut end
Place on the parchment
Grind the pistachios in a pestle and mortar, add the cardamom and sprinkle
Allow to cool until the chocolate is completely solid
Preparation
Serves 4 – 6
Soak the stuffing mix, precooked chestnuts and precooked sausages for 15 minutes. Leave to cool or place in the fridge overnight.
When preparing to cook, preheat the oven to 200C.
Method
Place the filling in a line down the centre of the unrolled puff pastry sheet.
Wrap the pastry around the filling and seal.
Slice some diagonal lines along the top of the pastry and brush with a small amount of oil.
Place in the oven and cook for approximately 40 minutes, or until golden brown and the pastry has cooked through.
Leave to cool and serve at a family buffet with Christmas chutney, or serve with your Christmas dinner covered in gravy. Yum!
Preparation
Heat oil in a wok and stir-fry minced garlic until aromatic. Then, add OmniPork and stir in chili bean sauce, set aside.
Chili Oil: Soak dried chili, then drain and pat dry chilies. Blend them thoroughly into a paste, set aside.
Heat 200ml oil in a wok, stir-fry ginger, spring onion, Sichuan pepper and star anise until fragrant, then turn off heat. Pour oil into the bowl using a sieve to separate the oil and ingredients to make chili oil.
Heat oil over medium-high heat and deep-fry peanuts and soybeans until crispy, drain and set aside.
Soak sweet potato noodles in warm water for 1 hour until softened. Cook in boiling water until transparent, drain and set aside.
Prepare a bowl, add all ingredients of broth, chili oil and boiling water and mix well. Add glass noodles, OmniPork, fried soybeans and peanuts into the bowl. Sprinkle white sesame and top with coriander to serve.
Method
The basics:
Gravy – Good gravy is a must. It ties everything together and is essential for mashing roasties into! This is my ‘go-to’ recipe:
Chop an onion and two/three cloves of garlic and chuck into a pan with a splash of olive oil and a large bay leaf or a good sprinkling of thyme
Once softened, add a generous teaspoon of Dijon mustard, and about the same of tomato puree
Chop up some kalamata olives or sundried tomatoes (a good handful and you can do both if you want) into little pieces and add to the pot
Add a dash of soy sauce, and a good shake of smoked paprika (optional)
Boil kettle and add enough water to the pot to suit number of guests
Add as many teaspoons of Bouillon to match the hot water
Stir all the time!
Let it simmer down until thick. I typically start a roast by boiling my potatoes for roasties (see below), and then start straight on my gravy, so it should have had enough time to thicken by the time it comes to serving. If you need to thicken it some more, just add a little cornstarch or flour (only a little at a time)
Remove bay leaf (if using) before serving
Gravy additions: I have been known to add to this recipe by adding celery (after the onions and garlic), chopped cherry tomatoes, green olives, tapenade, extra onion, mushrooms, leeks, Marmite etc. Have fun with it! Anything that adds that umami flavour is always good. And if you want to easily increase the protein then add some lentils to the gravy – puy or green work best – or even beans (I like black beans!). Make it in your own signature style 🙂
Roast Potatoes – Forget everything else, what makes a roast is roasties! Loved by everyone, great cold later on, or in a Spanish omelette the next day. I keep mine really simple…
Cut potatoes into roastie-sized chunks. Leave the skin on!
Boil until the skin starts to slightly peel off and the potatoes are soft
Pour potatoes into roasting tin (I often shove mine into the oven a few minutes before, so the oil sizzles when I pour them in) with a little olive oil, a little salt, lots of cracked pepper and either rosemary or thyme. (I have been known to use smoked paprika here too, or throw in a handful of garlic cloves – again, add the flavours that you love.)
Leave in oven at about 220C for about 40 minutes, or for however long it takes for them to crisp up just as you like them.
Carrots/Broccoli/Green Beans/Kale etc. – Great for crunch, colour and texture. You can cook these any way you want really, but for carrots, broccoli and beans I like to flash boil so they remain full of bite. None of those soggy veggies your Nana used to serve! Kale is great with a touch of oil in a pan, lots of pepper and sometimes a little garlic. If serving as a side, it is also lovely with some toasted sunflower seeds or pine nuts sprinkled on top.
The Crowd Pleasers:
Lentil loaf – I absolutely love this, and it is perfect with all the roasted trimmings! A great option for Christmas or Thanksgiving, and is excellent cold the next day – have it in a sandwich! In my mind, there’s no need to reinvent wheels if someone has already made the perfect dish… and Vegan Richa has. I recommend you try this as soon as you can! (It is also a protein-packed hit and a half! I have yet to meet an omnivore who doesn’t love this.)
Vegan Richa’s Lentil and Quinoa Loaf 
Roasted Cauliflower – Having never been a huge fan of cauliflower, I was initially sceptical about this. But the jungle drums are not lying… You simply have to try it! Easy, delicious, different, fun and extremely tasty; it is a great one to knock out for non-vegans. I have used this recipe from One Green Planet and been overjoyed with it every time:
‘Cheesy’ Whole Roasted Cauliflower
Garlicky Roasted Sprouts – Sprouts get a bad rap, and I don’t think that’s fair. When cooked right they can be sensational. I make this at Christmas as well as whenever I randomly happen to pick up sprouts, and it’s always a winner. I use a whole bag of sprouts for this.
Wash your sprouts, chop the hard ends off and score an X in the bottom of each
Into an oven-proof dish, add the sprouts (you can choose to cut them up a little here, or wait until later as I do), a good glug of olive oil, about the same of water, minced/finely chopped garlic (minimum of three cloves), a little salt and lots of cracked pepper
Put them in the oven at about 220C and check on them in about 20 mins
You may need to add a little more water when you next check in them. Give the sprouts a good mix up and, if they’re softening, mush a few up with the back of your spoon. This dish is great when you have a mix of whole sprouts and broken up bits
Put back in the oven for approximately another 20 minutes – you may want to check, stir and mush about 10/15 mins in, just to ensure they’re not burning.
You sort of have to decide when these sprouts are right for you. Some people like them really caramelised, others less so. So, again, it is a play around with kind of dish. I once thought I’d completely ruined this, as I’d burnt the outer edges of the sprouts early on, but I mixed them up, added a bit more water, mashed them a little and kept going. Everyone at the table loved them and had seconds. Best idea, however, is to do what I don’t do… Make these once before the special occasion so you feel confident on the day!
Quick and Easy:
Sometimes you don’t have lots of time and that’s when mock meats are just ace. Gravy, roast potatoes, some greens and one of these (or similar) and that’s a roast in my book!
Fry’s Sausages, Pies, or Thick Cut Strips – Great to have in the freezer! Whip up a load of veg and add one of these great products to the mix. Perfect for family meals with non-vegans 🙂
Linda McCartney Sausages – Comfort food for vegetarians and vegans alike, both the Original and Rosemary flavours are vegan.
Granose Burger Mix – I love this stuff! One sachet makes four patties, and two for each plate seems to work well.
Method
1. Prepare the spaghetti in a saucepan and allow to cook while you’re making the sauce.
2. Heat 1 tbsp oil in a large frying pan on a medium heat.
3. Add the chopped onion and fry for 3-4 minutes to soften.
4. Add the garlic and stir in. Stir in the frozen peas and cook for a couple more minutes.
5. Pour in the cream with the onions plus lemon juice, zest, mustard, nutritional yeast, salt, pepper, stock cube and paprika.
6. Simmer for 2-3 minutes stirring occasionally.
7. In a separate pan fry the breaded chicken for 3 minutes each side.
8. Drain the cooked spaghetti (saving a little of the pasta water) and add the spaghetti to the lemon sauce.
9. Add a little of the pasta water to the sauce to thicken it. Coat the spaghetti in the sauce and pour into bowls.
10. Slice the breaded chicken into strips and place on top of the pasta.
11. Garnish with a dash of olive oil, parsley and lemon zest.
Method
Preheat oven to 160°C
Mix together the oats, bran flakes, rye flakes and nuts
Spread the mixture on to a large baking tray and toast the mixture in the oven for 10 minutes, shaking the tray halfway through
Take out the oven and leave to cool (around 10 minutes)
Mix in your raisins, apricots and seeds
Serve with a plant milk of your choice, and top with berries, banana, coconut flakes – or anything that takes your fancy!
Keep in an airtight container.
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
1. Cut the seitan in thin slices and brown in a pan with some olive oil.
2. Throw in the cabbage and season with salt and pepper. Add the cumin seeds, orange juice, marmalade and capers. Stir and cover.
3. Add the broth and leave to simmer for approx. 10 mins or until the cabbage has absorbed most of the liquid.
4. Add the orange slices and cook for a further 2-3 mins.
Serve with basmati rice.
Preparation
Put yogurt in bowl
Add fruit and berries
Add coconut and flax seed
Eat!
Preparation
Serves 8
You will need a 450g/1lb loaf tin for this recipe
Method
Begin by making the honeycomb. Generously grease a flat baking tray with vegetable oil. Melt the granulated sugar and golden syrup in a high sided saucepan over a low heat. Once melted, turn up the heat a little and bubble the syrup until it turns to a rich, caramel gold colour. Whisk in the bicarbonate of soda – this will make the syrup foam up, hence the high sided pan – and immediately pour the mixture onto your greased baking tray. Set the tray aside and leave it to cool for 20 minutes, before sliding the honeycomb off and chopping it roughly into small chunks for the parfait.
Next, line the loaf tin with enough cling film to allow it to drape over the edges by about 3 inches, smoothing the cling film into the tin to form a crease free base.
Break up the dark chocolate and roughly chop the almonds. Place the chocolate, golden syrup and margarine in a heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water, stir together until melted and combined to a smooth and glossy finish.
Take the bowl off the heat and stir in the chopped honeycomb, almonds, cherries and cranberries. Spoon the mixture into the lined tin and level the top. Fold the overhanging cling film loosely over the top of the parfait and then place in the freezer for 1 hour, remove from the freezer and transfer the parfait to the fridge until set. Once ready to serve, carefully lift the parfait from the tin, unwrap the cling film and cut into 2 cm slices to serve.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Preheat the oven to 220°C/425 °F/gas 7
Unroll the pastry and cut into 4 pieces
Roll these 4 pieces into squares
Place a mushroom on each square and top the mushroom with the pesto sauce, tomatoes, then the sliced Cheezly
Season
Now bring up the corners of the pastry over the topping and press to seal together
Place these parcels on a baking sheet and bake for 20 mins until the pastry is golden
These can be made and kept in the fridge until ready to cook and they can also be frozen after cooking and then reheated.
Method
Prepare the Quorn Fishless Breaded Fillets with a Lemon & Pepper Breadcrumb according to package directions.
Meanwhile, toss together the pineapple, red onion, jalapeno, coriander, lime juice, cumin, chili powder, salt and pepper. Let it stand for 5-10 minutes for the flavours to marry.
Slice each fillet into 6 strips and serve with the pineapple salsa and cabbage in the tortillas, with lime wedges for squeezing.
Tips: Substitute pineapple with mango. Add avocado slices or guacamole to the tacos if desired.
Did you enjoy this dish? Explore more vegan seafood recipes.
Method
Bring the kettle to a boil, and mix the ingredients of the miso bouillon sachet or vegetable stock cube in 4 cups of the hot water and set aside.
In a pot, warm up the oil and add the garlic and fry for a few seconds. Add the carrots and celery and leeks and sauté for five minutes. Add the tomato passata and cook for a further few minutes.  Add the beans, kombu and stock.  Bring to the boil and cook for 20 minutes on a low heat.
Remove and discard the kombu.
Remove one heaped cup of the soup, blend to a cream in an upright blender or use a stick blender and return to the pot.
Stir in the jar of corn/peas and simmer for 5 minutes. Stir in the parsley.
Season the soup to taste with salt and black pepper (optional) and if you prefer finish off with a swig of olive oil.
Preparation
Add and mix through the almond milk, coconut oil, vinegar, if using, maple and lemon zest. 
Heat a non-stick frying- pan over a high heat and if you have one, place a love heart cutter in the pan.  
Add a little oil to the pan and spoon in about ½ cup of pancake batter. Cook for about 2 minutes then carefully flip and cook for 2 minutes more. If using the heart cutter, remove this before flipping the pancake. Repeat until all the mix has been cooked. 
To serve, combine the yoghurt with the pulp of 1 passion fruit and spoon this over your pancakes then top with raspberries, coconut maple syrup and more passionfruit.  
Preparation
Canned green jackfruit bears a resemblance to flaked crabmeat when cooked. It can be found in Indian and Asian markets or purchased through the internet. Look for the label “Green Jackfruit” or “Young Green Jackfruit” and be sure that it’s packed in water or brine and not syrup. Cans of ripe jackfruit packed in syrup may be stocked nearby, but don’t be tempted to substitute as the ripe fruit will be too sweet for this application.
*Chef’s note: Traditional ceviche made with fresh seafood has a fresh, clean flavor and should not be fishy. If you wish to add a subtle ocean flavor to this plant-based version add a little bit of dried kelp flakes or flaked, toasted nori.
Method
Drain the jackfruit and rinse. If the jackfruit was canned in brine, rinse thoroughly. Add the chunks of jackfruit to 1 quart salted boiling water. Reduce the heat to a slow boil and cook for 15 minutes. Drain in a colander and let cool. When cool enough to handle, remove the tough core from each chunk of jackfruit with a sharp knife and discard. Break the chunks apart with your fingers and remove the soft seeds and seed membranes and discard. The remaining flaky pulp is the only portion you will want to use in the dish, so sort through the chunks carefully (there will be a significant amount of unusable material). Wrap the pulp in a lint-free kitchen towel and squeeze to remove excess water. Coarsely chop the pulp and place in a mixing bowl.
Add the remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the avocado and toss well to combine. Refrigerate for several hours to marinate the ingredients and blend the flavors. Add the diced avocado just before serving and toss well. The avocado can also be placed into a ring mold and the ceviche layered on top for a lovely presentation. Season the ceviche with additional salt as desired and to taste. Serve with crunchy tortilla chips.
Tip: Strips of flour or corn tortilla that have been flash-fried in cooking oil make an interesting and crunchy garnish.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
1. In a medium sized frying pan, heat the oil on a low heat. Add the onions and cook for 10-15 minutes until softened and beginning to caramelise. Add the sugar and cook for a further 5 minutes until sticky, dark and soft. Set aside.
2. In a bowl, mix the Tvna with the vegan mayo, chives and vinegar. Season generously with pepper. Set aside.
3. Butter the bread then add to a dry frying pan until golden and toasted on one side. Flip over and add a cheese slice to each piece of bread and continue to cook until melted.
4. Assemble the tuna melt by sandwiching the tuna mayo mixture with caramelised onions and sliced jalapenos between two slices of cheesy toast.
Method
Line a 20cm square cake tin with baking parchment. Set aside.
Place the ingredients into a large non-stick saucepan and melt over a low heat, stirring until the sugar dissolves. 
We like to add a little pinch of salt to the caramel which you can do at the beginning of this step. 
Bring to the boil then simmer for 5-8 minutes, stirring continuously and scraping the base of the pan. Take care while the mixture boils and during stirring as the fudge will be VERY hot! To see if it’s ready, drop a little of the mixture into a jug of ice-cold water. A soft ball of fudge should form. 
Alternatively, check with a sugar thermometer if you have one (the fudge should be approximately 112-115°C). 
Remove the fudge from the heat and leave to cool for 5 minutes. Beat the mixture until it loses its shine and becomes very thick (this should take about 10 minutes).  You’ll have a dead arm but it’s worth it for the best ever vegan fudge! 
You can add chopped chocolate, nuts, stem ginger, cookie pieces, alcohol, flavouring extracts whatever you like to the fudge after its cooled and then beat as usual. 
Press into the prepared tin with the back of a spoon and leave to set before cutting into squares. 
The fudge will keep for up to 2 weeks in an airtight container at room temperature. 
Preparation
Serves 4  – quickest if a hand blender is used, as blending can be done directly in the pan
Method
In a medium-large saucepan, heat the margarine. When it is melted, add the oil. Fry the onion gently in the fat until it is translucent (softened but not brown).
Add the watercress and sauté for another few minutes.
Add the stock, parsley, beans and nutmeg. Bring to the boil then simmer for 15-20 minutes.
Blend until smooth. Taste and season – add more salt/pepper/nutmeg as desired. Add the soya milk or soya cream at this point.
Add the watercress sprigs just before serving.
Method
Slice the tofu horizontally, then cut diagonally into 8 triangles. Place the tofu in a shallow dish.
Mix together the marinade and pour over the tofu.
Leave the tofu to marinade for at least an hour, turn the tofu half way through so that it marinated evenly.
Mix together the tofu crust ingredients. Take the tofu pieces one at a time and dip into the mix so that the crust sticks to all sides.
Shallow fry the tofu, until crisp. Set aside.
Strain the marinade and keep as a dipping sauce.
Preparation
Preheat your oven to 200C and line a baking tray with greaseproof paper.
Place the Quorn Vegan Cumberland Sausages, sage leaves, apple, garlic, salt and pepper and pulse until smooth.
Remove the puff pastry from its packaging and roll out on to a clean, flat surface. Cut in half lengthways to create two long strips. Divide the sausage mixture and place in a long sausage shape across the long edge of the pastry strips.
Using both hands, tightly roll and fold the pastry over, tucking in underneath and pressing lightly to seal the pastry. Brush the pastry with the vegan milk. Transfer on to the baking tray and bake for 20 minutes.
Preparation
For the peanut satay, combine the peanut butter, cumin powder, soy sauce, lemon juice, garlic powder, ginger powder, turmeric and sugar in a bowl. Stir all ingredients together. Add a little bit of plant-based milk or water to thin out the mixture as needed.
In the Airfryer, air fry the Chicken-Style Strips for 6 minutes at 185°C*.
Combine Chicken-Style Strips and sauce in a dish, ensuring the strips are covered with by the sauce. For best results, marinade for an hour (or overnight) in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
Thread the Chicken-Style Strips onto skewers. Add the Chicken-Style Strips to the Airfryer and air fry for 2-3 minutes to reheat.
Sprinkle the skewers with fresh scallions, crushed peanuts and coriander, and serve with the remaining sauce on the side.
*Reduce cooking time if the Chicken-Style Strips have defrosted.
Method
Heat the oven to 140C. Place the tomatoes cut-side up on a baking tray lined with greaseproof paper, sprinkle with the sugar and a little salt, and bake for 90 minutes, until semi-dry. Remove from the oven and set aside to cool down.
Place the asparagus in a bowl and coat with a little olive oil, salt and pepper. Heat the griddle pan on the hob and once very hot add the asparagus. Cook for 2 minutes on each side until chargrilled. Place the asparagus in a large mixing bowl, along with the now cool dried tomatoes, the lemon, parsley and garlic.
Place the potatoes in a large saucepan, cover with plenty of cold water, add a good dose of salt and boil for 20-25 minutes, until just cooked. Drain, leave to cool a little, then cut into quarters or halves.
Wipe clean the potato pan, pour in the olive oil and heat up. Return the potatoes to the pot and fry for about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until golden brown on all sides. Add the warm potatoes to the salad, toss gently, taste and season. Add a little more olive oil if necessary.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Slice cheese
Arrange cheese and crackers on a plate/board
Add accompaniments
Serve
Preparation
I always recommend cooking more Quinoa than you need and using it later in the week – think homemade burger patties, salads, homemade breads etc.
Oh, and grow your own peas – super easy and they grow like weeds. Use the tendrils wherever you can!
Method
Build the salad in any way you like.
It is loaded with nutrition, good fats and plant protein.
Method
1. Combine the vinegar together with the sugar, tbsp of grated ginger, salt and chili flakes, whisk until the sugar has dissolved.
2. Shave the carrot and the cucumber into ribbons, use a peeler or a mandoline. Add both to the pickle juice and set aside for at least 30” before using
3. In a wok or frying pan add the Beyond Mince, cook on Medium heat breaking it down with a spoon for 5”. Now add the vegetable oil, ginger, garlic, chili and cook for 2”. Finally add the soay, honey and gochujang paste, stir well and cook for 10” until the mince is fully cooked. Lave to cool at room temperature.
4. Divide the baby gem leaves and spoon the mince on top of each leaf. Garnish with the pickles vegetables and fresh cilantro and spring onion. Enjoy!
Preparation
Serves two to three as a main meal
Preparation time: 20 minutes
Cooking time: 60 minutes
Method
At least 2 hours in advance: prepare the bacon by slicing the tempeh as thinly as you can and coat it with the marinade ingredients.
Preheat the oven to 200°C / 400°F / Gas Mark 6.
To prepare the squash, use a sharp knife to top and tail it and then cut lengthways down the middle. Scoop out the seeds and stringy bits using a spoon. Slice a criss-cross pattern across the flesh and drizzle the maple syrup and oil onto each half, followed by the seasoning.
Cook for 45 minutes to an hour. It should turn a lovely caramelised brown, and be soft, but not mushy. Once cooked, slice into chunks.
Combine the chickpeas, oil and seasoning in an oven proof dish and cook for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally to ensure even cooking.
Arrange the tempeh bacon slices on a flat tray, lined with parchment paper, and pour over any remaining marinade. Place the tray in the oven and cook for 20-30 minutes, turning once.
While the squash, chickpeas and tempeh are cooking, prepare the freekeh by simmering in water for 15 minutes. Drain and set aside. Heat the oil in a large pan and sautée the garlic, mushrooms and thyme until lightly browned. Add the freekeh, stir and take off the heat.
Once the oven-cooked ingredients are almost done, slice the greens into ribbons and steam until soft. Rehydrate the wakame according to the packet and slice thinly. Slice the tomatoes.
To make the dressing, combine all the ingredients in a food processor and blend until smooth.
You’re now ready to assemble the bowl! I like to start with the freekeh and greens, then layer in sections, finishing with the dressing.
Preparation
If cooking the quinoa: cook in water and bouillon, until the ‘tail’ comes out of the seed.
Method
Preheat oven to 350F/175C. Oil a 20 x 20cm baking dish or line with baking paper.
Whisk egg replacer and water and leave to sit. Sauté chopped onions and garlic in a little oil for several minutes, until clear.
Add nutmeg and cayenne, then spinach, and sauté for a few minutes.
Combine with the egg mixture. Mix well, then add quinoa, carrot, lemon zest, pepper, turmeric and cream.
When well mixed, pour into the baking dish. Bake for one hour or until the edges are brown.
After cooking, leave to set for ten minutes. Serves six as a main dish. Serve with steamed greens or salad.
Can be served hot or cold. Perfect for lunch boxes.
Preparation
Serves 2
Method
Put the grill on.
Place portobello mushrooms in a dish and brush with olive oil. Place under the grill and cook for 8 mins on each side.
In a saucepan scramble the drained tofu with a fork. Add turmeric, thyme and nutritional yeast. Blend well and cook until warm. Season to taste.
When the mushrooms are almost cooked, cut ciabatta loaves in half horizontally and toast.
Spread pesto inside each toasted ciabatta halves.
For each sandwich, sprinkle ciabatta bottom with alfalfa sprouts and red onions.
Stack 2 mushrooms on top, followed by half the tofu scramble and 1 roasted pepper.
Sprinkle with alfalfa sprouts and cover with ciabatta top.
Serve with Kalamata olives (optional)
Method
In a blender, whizz drained chickpeas to a paste with the lime juice (you can also do this by hand with a fork or potato masher).
Transfer to a bowl. Mix curry powder in, followed by mango chutney and cinnamon. Work with a fork so everything is well blended.
Mix chopped coriander leaves to the paste. Adjust seasoning if needed.
Spread on your favourite bread.
Method
Start to pulse the mushrooms as they need to be pureed. Remove and place into a bowl.
Do the same to the tempeh, but this needs to be a bit chunkier. Place it in with the mushrooms.
Add the mushroom and tempeh into the pan, turn the heat up to cook out the mushroom water. This will do two things: give a deep colour and intensify the flavours.
Once the mushroom water has been cooked out and evaporated, transfer the mix out of the pan and drain in the colander.
In the same large pan, add some olive oil. Add the finely chopped veggies and cook slowly, releasing all those beautiful aromas and flavours. Then in with the garlic and cook for a further 2-3mins.
Add the finely chopped thyme and rosemary and continue to cook for a few minutes.
Go in with the tomato puree, cook out slowly for 3 mins. Finely add the red wine and turn the heat up to deglaze the pan with all the caramelized sediment that’s on the bottom of the pan – this is where all the natural flavour is.
Reduce to cook out the alcohol and add the tempeh and mushroom mixture back into the pan. Give the mix a good stir.
Add the canned tomatoes, passata and water. Give it a good stir.
Season with salt and pepper cook for 10 mins.
Have a pan of boiling water ready to cook the pasta. Mix and emulsify the Bolognese sauce with the cooked pasta.
Finish with a sprinkle of nutritional yeast.
Serve and enjoy!
Did you like this dish? Check out this lentil bolognese recipe too.
Method
Preheat your oven to 180ºC/350ºF/Gas Mark 4 and grease two baking trays.
Cut the chocolate into big fat chunks.
Soften the margarine, add the sugar and cream together until light and fluffy.
Stir in the rice syrup or agave nectar, flour, plant milk and chocolate chunks and mix well.
Place about 18 spoonfuls of the mixture onto the baking trays, allowing space for the cookies to spread a little.
Bake for 8-10 minutes.
Remove immediately from the baking trays and place on a wire rack to cool.
Enjoy!
Method
Start with the nut-ella
Place the hazelnuts in a preheated oven 180 degrees for 10 minutes. This way they get lightly toasted and release fat so they can easily be made into nut butter.
Put in a blender and blitz until fine. Start on the low setting and work your way up. Then add the rest of the ingredients and blend to a smooth chocolate paste.
Spoon into a clean glass jar or container and set aside.
For the French toast
In a small bowl, whisk together the plant milk, flour, cinnamon and pinch of salt.
Place the bread in a shallow dish (with sides) that holds all of the bread. Pour the batter over the bread or dip, then lift or flip it over to make sure both sides are evenly coated.
Heat a drizzle of coconut oil in a large frying pan over medium heat. When the pan is hot, add the bread slices and cook for a few minutes each side until golden brown.
To make it look pretty, arrange your toast slices and serve scattered with fresh berries, banana slices and big generous dollops of home-made nut-ella!
Preparation
Serves 4 – 6.
Method
Blend the apples until smooth, add the stevia and cocoa powder. Mix through the flour and starch and lastly the juice to form a smooth thick batter.
Spoon the batter into a 8″ cake tin and roughly smooth the top. Pile the frozen berries on top of the batter and lightly press.
Bake at 180C for approx 35 minutes- check the cake after 20 minutes and if the top is already golden but centre still requires extra time, loosely cover for the final 15 minutes or so.
Serve hot or cold, with custard or cream (vegan of course)!
*Note: I used apple juice the first time it is tasted slightly too appley for my taste but was still fine. I would suggest using a berry juice to compliment the berries on top.
Method
Preheat the oven to 180oC, gas mark 4. Put the whole garlic clove into a small roasting tin and cook for 10 minutes until it starts to smell fantastic, then remove from the oven and peel.
To make the mayonnaise, blend the roasted garlic, mustard, pepper, and soya milk with a pinch of salt until smooth. Next slowly and gently pour in the sunflower oil, with the blender running. Continue to blend until it starts to emulsify into a mayonnaise-like texture.
Grate the red cabbage, white cabbage and carrot. Finely chop the onion and mix all together in a large bowl. Add in all the mayonnaise et voila! Coleslaw ready to go!
Recipes and images courtesy of Waitrose & Partners
Method
Pre-heat the oven to 180°C
Grind the nuts to a coarse texture in a pestle and mortar
Mix together the quinoa flakes, oat flakes, oatmeal and nuts into a bowl
Bash up the salt, garlic, rosemary & sage leaves in a pestle & mortar to make a rough paste and add to the mixing bowl, mix well
Finely chop the spinach and mix into the bowl
Add the tomatoes (and chilli sauce if using), season with black pepper and mix well
Add the olive oil and rice syrup and mix in well
Line a loaf tin with grease-proof paper and spoon in the mixture, pressing down firmly as you go
Cook for approximately an 60-90 minutes (depending on your oven), until golden brown on top and cooked all the way through
Method
Whizz all the crust ingredients in a food processor until it forms into crumbs, then divide between four mini-tart pans. Use damp fingers, and press down until it resembles a crust. Leave to one side while you make the filling.
Process the mango, cashews (drained), lime juice and zest, coconut oil and cream, mint, vanilla and maple syrup until creamy.
Pour into crust cases, and freeze for at least two hours.
Remove from the freezer and leave for only a few minutes before serving. Garnish with fresh mint leaves or lime slices.
Serves 4.
Preparation
Juice the pomegranate, satsumas and lime and place in a cocktail shaker with several ice-cubes.
Gently rub the sprigs of thyme between your fingers to release the flavour and add to shaker along with agave if using.
Shake vigorously until thoroughly muddled.
Adorn glasses with a sprig of thyme, slice of lime, pomegranate seeds and satsuma peel.
Pour and enjoy.
Method
Blend all the ingredients together and pour equally into 2 round 7 ½ x 1 ½  oiled and lined baking tins.
Cook on a med high heat for about 20-30 minutes.
When cool fill with butter cream using Sainsbury freefrom or a dairy free dairy margarine, and chopped walnuts
Method
Melt coconut oil in the microwave. Mix with cashew butter and maple syrup (add vanilla extract if using).
Mix together dry ingredients…protein (if using), oat flour, oats, salt, cinnamon, baking soda and vanilla powder if using.
Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients. Pour in the wet ingredients and mix well to combine. Allow to cool for 10 minutes before stirring in chocolate chips. Place into the fridge for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 180C (350F).
Use an ice cream scoop to scoop out dough onto a baking paper lined baking tray to create 8-9 cookies. Gently flatten with the palm of your hand (they will spread a little whilst they cook).
Bake in the preheated oven for 10 -12 minutes (until golden!)… 12 minutes for a firmer cookie but it really does depend on your oven!
Allow to cool on the tray for 10 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool fully…or serve the up warm with ice cream of choice… I’d opt for my Vanilla Bean Dream Ice Cream.
Once cool store in a seal tight container at room temperature for up to four days or freeze for up to one month.
Method
Cut the potatoes length ways roughly 1cm in thickness.
Add the pinch of rock salt and pepper to the oil and rub it onto the potatoes.
Place in a pre-heated oven and cook for 25 minutes and then turn before cooking a further 25 minutes.
To make the sauce lightly blend the baby tomatoes.
For best results try to drain off some of the excess juice.
Then place in a saucepan with 2 tablespoons of tomato paste and 1 teaspoon of paprika and lightly simmer.* I teamed these up with a butter bean and quinoa salad for a filling main meal.
Preparation
Serves 4
Method
Finely chop the onions. Using a heavy based, lidded pan heat 2 tbsp of olive oil and add the onions giving them a quick stir so they get coated in the oil. Pop the lid on the pan and, keeping the heat low, sweat the onion for around 10 mins, stirring occasionally, until translucent. While the onion is cooking you can prepare the courgettes. Give them a wash, and cut away any damaged skin. Slice each courgette in half lengthways and slice into ¼ inch pieces. When the onions are cooked, add the courgettes, bay leaf, herbs de Provence and mustard powder, give them a good stir, and balance the lid back on the pan so it is slightly ajar. The cooking time here will vary a little depending on the size of the courgettes but this should be around 20-25 minutes with the courgettes taking on a translucent appearance when they are cooked.
While the courgettes are cooking, make the pesto. Using a food processor or a pestle and mortar blend together the pine nuts, garlic, mint and 4 tsp of the olive oil. Once a coarse paste is formed add the salt and the nutritional yeast. Give another quick blend so the new ingredients are integrated but the texture of the pesto remains coarse.
Once the courgettes are cooked, add the vegetable stock and grate in the nutmeg. Keeping the pan on a low heat stir well for a minute or two before transferring the contents to the blender (or leave in the pan if using a hand blender). Puree the soup adding some hot water if the soup is too thick, and return to the pan.
Zest the lemon. Cover the zest as it dries out incredibly quickly and set aside until serving. Disposing of any pips, squeeze the juice into the hot soup. Give a quick stir and check the seasoning.
To serve, ladle the soup into the serving bowls and grate over a little nutmeg. Rest a dollop of pesto on top of the soup then scatter over the lemon zest.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
Wash the pears, slice in half lengthways and scoop out the core. Place on a baking tray and sprinkle with the sugar and spices. Grill the pears for around 20-25 minutes whilst you prepare the porridge.
Place a saucepan on a low-medium heat and add the oats, spices and milk.
Wash the apple and grate it before adding it to the saucepan straight away before it browns. Stir the porridge well whilst it cooks to ensure you get a nice creamy porridge.
Whilst the porridge cooks, heat a frying pan on a high heat and add the hazelnuts. Shake occasionally to prevent burning until the skins start to peel away. Transfer onto some kitchen towel and leave to cool slightly before rubbing in the towel to remove the skins. Meanwhile toast the pumpkin seeds in the frying pan, shaking the pan until they start to pop then transfer into a bowl to cool.
When the porridge starts to thicken you may need to add some water, up to 50ml to get your preferred consistency. (I always find how much liquid you require can vary quite dramatically depending on what oats you use). After 15-20 minutes you should have perfect creamy porridge ready to serve.
Chop the toasted hazelnuts and sprinkle over along with the pumpkin seeds. Finally top with the grilled pears.
Method
In a small bowl, add in rolled oats, chia seeds, almond milk, 4tbsp oat yogurt and maple syrup and stir with a spoon to combine. 
Add oats and stir a few more times. Press down with a spoon to ensure all oats have been moistened and immersed in almond milk. Cover securely and set in the fridge overnight or at least 6 hours to set.  
The next day, loosen with a splash of water (or milk) if needed. Top with oat yogurt, or garnish with berry toppings as desired.  
Note overnight oats will keep in the fridge for 2-3 days, though best within the first 12-24 hours.
Preparation
You will need: A heart-shaped chocolate mould with 12 hearts. You can use any chocolate mould shape if you’d prefer a different shape.
You can also watch a video demonstration of chocolate making
Method
Step One:
‘Shave’ the solid cocoa butter with a sharp knife or grater. Shaving is just really thin slicing that makes the cocoa butter crumble. The finer you can get it, the easier it will be to melt. You can leave it in big chunks if you like, but be prepared to wait a while for it to melt.
Step Two: 
Melt the cocoa butter. You can do this by leaving it in a warm place in a heat proof glass bowl by a fire or directly above a hot radiator. It melts at 34˚C. The idea is to melt it, rather than cook it, maintaining its ‘un-cookedness’. If you don’t have a gentle heat source then use a hob or stove.
Put the cocoa butter in a small, oven proof, glass bowl and then put that bowl in a pan containing an inch or so of really hot water. Keep the hob/stove burning on a low heat. The heat will then transfer through the bowl, enough to melt the cocoa butter. Give it frequent stirs to assist the melting process. Don’t keep it on the heat any longer than it takes to melt it.
The best time to use it is when it has just melted. If it is too hot, then it takes longer to cool down and the coconut sugar will sink to the bottom of the chocolate when added.
Step Three: 
Add the coconut sugar to the melting cocoa butter during step two. The melting cocoa butter will help to soften and dissolve the sugar.
Step Four: 
When the cocoa butter has finally melted, mix in the cocoa powder and any other remaining ingredients.
Here’s the fun part!
Making chocolate hearts:
Place 1 teaspoon of your melted chocolate mixture into each heart-shaped well. When you’ve put some in every heart, pop them into the freezer whilst you prepare and blend the filling ingredients.
Prepare the filling:
Blend all the filling ingredients together thoroughly and leave on the side whilst you make the chocolate.
Making chocolate hearts continued:
Take your hearts out of the freezer (after about 10 minutes worth of chilling) and place the blueberry filling into each one. This is slightly fiddly! Use a teaspoon and a knife to help the process…
Take about ½ a teaspoon of filling and gently dollop it on top of the freshly chilled chocolate hearts. Aim right for the middle of the heart. You’ll find that some always hits the edges… simply tease it back with your knife to create a thin gap at the edges (you’ll see why next).
Take the rest of your melted chocolate (you should have some left – if not – make some more) and pour 2 or 3 teaspoons over each dollop. Place your tray of hearts straight into the freezer to help your chocolates set. This should be ready in about 15 minutes. You can also set them by leaving in the fridge or any cool place (but allow extra time for setting).
Enjoy!
Preparation
Juicer
Method
Put everything through the high-powered juicer.
Serve with a slice of lemon.
Method
If you are using wooden skewers, soak them for about 20-30 mins in cold water so that they do not burn when you cook the satay
Make the marinade – Finely chop the lemon grass, root ginger, chillies and mix with crushed garlic in a bowl. Add the ground cumin, coriander, turmeric, agave syrup, lime juice, tamari/soya sauce and rapeseed or olive oil. Alternatively, you can blitz this all in a food processor to form a paste
Prepare the protein – Slice the tofu into thick slices about 1.5cm thick (or cubes if you are skewering them)
Make the satay – Put the peanut butter, coconut milk, chilli flakes, tamari or soya sauce, lime juice and protein powder of choice into a small saucepan and on a low heat melt the peanut butter and mix all the ingredients together to form a thick sauce. Pour into a bowl and decorate with 2 slices of fresh red chilli
Coat the tofu with the satay marinade for at least 30 mins in the fridge
Grill marinated tofu slices for about 4-5 mins each side. (Note: these are also great on the barbecue)
Season with a twist of ground black pepper. Serve with warm protein peanut satay sauce, wedges of lime (the sharpness contrasts beautifully with the creaminess and spicy marinade) and salad
SO MAN
www.sobody.co.uk
Hello! I am So from SOBODYUK. I am a gym bunny, healthy food blogger & a geeky scientist! These days my lab is the kitchen! I love creating delicious, healthy, wholefood, clean-eating, nutrition-dense recipes to maximise performance & health. My recipes include paleo, low carb, vegan, vegetarian, gluten free.
Method
Lightly grease a bread loaf tin (22 x 12cm or something like that) and line it with greaseproof paper/baking parchment. (I forgot to do this actually…)
Weigh out and prepare all your ingredients.
Add the lemon zest and juice, raisins and ground almonds to the pumpkin flesh in a large bowl.
Add the baking soda to the vinegar in a food mixing bowl.
Add the sugar to this and beat using an electric whisk for 2-3 minutes until pale and creamy.
Add this to the pumpkin mixture and lightly stir.
Sieve the flour and add to the mix along with the spices. Fold it all in together until well combined.
Using an electric whisk beat the chickpea brine until it holds soft peaks like what egg whites would do.
Stir a heaped tablespoon of this into the brack mixture to loosen it and then fold the rest in as lightly as possible.
Pour the mixture into a prepared load tin and even out the surface.
Bake it in the oven for around 1 hour at the temperature recommended.
Check if ready by inserting a skewer or knife into the centre. It should come out clean, but if it doesn’t, leave it in for longer and turn down the heat if it is starting to burn out the outside. Remove the loaf from the tin and leave in the oven at an even lower heat near the end to ensure thorough baking.
Then let it cool on a wire rack before slicing. Don’t be tempted to slice into it before it cools! It could fall apart!
Enjoy with some soya butter and a cup of tea.
Method
Marinate prepared vegetables, using either the shashlik paste marinade or the basic marinade you have made yourself. Cover and set aside in fridge for half an hour.
In a large pan, add the vegetable oil then add the cardamom, cassia bark and cloves. Gently fry until aroma is released, then add chopped onion. Fry gently until onion is transparent and starting to turn golden. Remove the whole spices.
Lay the marinated vegetables (except the green beans and mushrooms) on a well oiled tray and bake in a hot oven (200C) for 15 minutes, turning occasionally to ensure nicely browned on all sides. The potatoes may need an additional 5-10 minutes depending on the size of the pieces. Check they are cooked through. Add the green beans and mushrooms to the tray and bake for another 10 minutes.
Add the ginger, chillies, paprika, coriander, garam masala and fenugreek powder to the large pan, and fry gently for 2 minutes. Then add the tomato puree, syrup and two cups of water. Bring to simmer and season to taste with salt. Simmer gently for 10-15 minutes, then add soy or almond cream and bring back to simmer.
I prefer to place the roasted vegetables in a bowl and pour over the masala, as this helps the vegetables keep their lovely marinade. But you can add the vegetables to the large pan also, stir gently and then serve immediately.
Serve with steamed rice and soft chapatis or parathas, garnish with fresh coriander, and some freshly sliced cucumber, red onion and a wedge of lemon on the side.
Method
1. Preheat the oven at 210°C.
2. In a large mixing bowl add the flours, baking powder, salt turmeric and za’atar, in a jug measure the oat milk then whisk it in the dry ingredients until you have a smooth batter. Place it in the fridge until needed.
3. Pour 3 tbsp of oil in the roasting tin (enough to cover all the base) and place it in the oven to heat up for around 7”.
4. In the meantime, in a large frying pan on medium-low heat add 1 tbsp of oil, once warm add the sausages and gently cook all around until evenly golden. Remove from the heat.
5. Carefully remove the tin from the oven, pour the batter you kept in the fridge and evenly spread sausages, onion wedges and sliced carrots in the batter. Bake for around 30 minutes on a low oven shelf, until the batter is puffed and golden. Enjoy!
Method
In a jug mix the flour, water and salt with a fork. Leave to rest for a few minutes.
Put a baking sheet on a large baking tray. Pour the flour mixture onto the paper, try to make it a round pizza shape but it’s not a problem if you can’t.
Put this in the oven whilst you prepare the toppings. This should take 10-15 minutes, the edges will be starting to brown.
In a bowl mix the passata with the nutritional yeast. Grate the garlic i to this, shred or tear the basil and add that too.
Using your peeler shred the fennel, just a handful will suffice. Put into a large bowl.
Chop about 2 inches off the bottom end of the asparagus. Roughly chop at a diagonal angle. Add to the bowl.
Finely slice the leek. Add to the bowl.
Cut the top and bottom off the courgettes. Using the peeler shred into wide thin pieces. Add to the bowl.
Finely slice the mushrooms but do not put these in the bowl yet.
Add a splash of olive oil and a dash of salt to the bowl. Using your hands mix this well and massage the oil into the veg. Now add the mushrooms and mix just a little.
Take your base out of the oven if you haven’t already. Turn the oven up to 240c.
Top with the passata, use however much you want, some people like a lot and some people like a little, it’s up to you.
Top with the veg.
Put the pizza on the top shelf of the oven. After 10 minutes check the pizza, the veg should be starting to brown, bake more if needed.
Preparation
Serves 2.
Method
Add the asparagus to hot quinoa and cover for 5 minutes.
Toss vegetables together.
Whisk together vinegar and pesto. Pour over vegetables.
Add quinoa, asparagus and chickpeas
In a smaller bowl, combine the balsamic vinegar with pesto until smooth. Pour it into the large bowl of veggies, along with the chickpeas, quinoa, and asparagus. Stir to coat and serve warm or cold.
Preparation
Special thanks to Victoria Harley for the image: split-pin.co.uk
Method
Slice bread and pop under the grill (although you can speed up the whole process if you have a toastie or a panini maker!)
Turn over one slice of bread when brown and remove the other
Spread a little vegan marge on the un-toasted side and layer with cheese
Return slice to oven cheese side up
Keep an eye on your toast so the cheese-less side doesn’t burn, and the cheese melts to your satisfaction
Add a little marge to your toasted slice and smoosh on top of the melted cheese slice
Pop open your crisp packet and munch alongside your toastie
Method
De-seed, de-stalk and slice your peppers in half or quarters.
Next: roast the sweet pepper and garlic in a hot oven… To do this, keep the garlic in its skin and place on an oven tray along with the pepper and place in a pre-heated oven (gas mark 7/425°C/220°F should work fine). Roast garlic for up to 10 minutes and the pepper for about 15-20 minutes (or until the pepper is easy to pierce). No need to let the pepper char. Note: I find it easier to roast this ahead of time – get on with something else – and then set them out to cool for a little while before adding to the rest of the ingredients.
It’s best to wait until the garlic cools down a little before you pop it out of it’s skin. Gently chop off the top; then squeeze out the fleshy garlic and place in a jug ready to blend with everything else.
Rinse and drain chickpeas.
Juice lemon and discard the skin.
Add all ingredients to a jug and blend until you reached your desired consistency.
Chill in the fridge before serving.
This serves well with: salad in a sandwich on crackers as a veggie dip with baked potatoes or  coconut-sweet-potatoes It’s pretty versatile and should keep in the fridge for over a week. I like to make a batch of pates and dips to enjoy throughout the week. Gotta make plenty in my house though as they vanish pretty quickly!
Preparation
Melt the chocolate and coconut oil together.
Mix the mashed sweet potato with all the other ingredients.
Mix the two together, mixing  well, the batter is not as liquid as a normal brownie batter.
Spread out in a 33 x 33 cm (16,5 x 16,5 inch ) baking tin and bake at 180 °C for about 20-25 minutes (test with a skewer, when it comes out clean, the brownies are ready)
Leave to cool before cutting into squares.
Preparation
This recipe serves 4 as a starter.
Method
Boil rice noodles for 3 to 5 minutes.
Rinse thoroughly with cold water and drain well so they don’t stick together.
Fill a large bowl with warm water.
Dip one wrapper into the water for a few seconds (1-3 secs) to soften.
Lay wrapper on the plate and place 2 Fry’s ‘prawn’ halves, a handful of noodles, basil, mint, coriander, lettuce, carrots in a row across the centre, leaving a few cm of the wrapper uncovered on each side.
Lay the avocado slices over the top.
Fold in uncovered sides of wrapper, then tightly roll to enclose the filling.
Repeat!
Sauce: Mix the hoisin sauce and peanuts together.
Serve the rice paper rolls with hoisin-peanut dipping sauce.
Method
Fry the finely chopped onion and garlic. Once they are softened add the soy mince, and then the blended tomatoes.
In a separate frying pan overcook the chopped aubergines. Once ready add to the rest of the sauce.
Add the thyme, and rosemary, then let the sauce simmer for about 15minutes. Now your sauce is ready stir in the finely chopped parsley and serve!
If making spaghetti bolognese, I recommend sprinkling some nutritional yeast and fresh parsley on top.
Method
There are lots of recipes for potato cheese out there, but this is the one I have adapted from various different ones.
Peel one large potato and one large carrot
Chop into small chunks (carrot smaller than the potato as it is harder)
Boil until soft
Put 3 tablespoons of the potato water into a food processor
Drain potatoes and carrots and pour into the processor
Add: 1/3 cup of oil (I use olive), 1/2 cup of nutritional yeast, juice of half a lemon, teaspoon of garlic powder/granules, dash of celery salt/onion powder, cracked pepper
Blend!
You can eat this cheese straight away with tortilla chips, use as your cheese topping on pizza, or go for the all-time best comfort food – Cheese on Toast!
Grill your bread on one side, remove and spread liberally with the potato cheese, place back under grill.
Preparation
Method
Preparing the pancake batter: Soak the gram flour in water and soya yoghurt for approximately 2 hours.
Start warming a frying pan. When it’s slightly hot, grease the pan and sprinkle a pinch of salt. Then use a kitchen paper to wipe off the salt and oil from the pan.
Add the salt, powdered black pepper, ginger and ajwain seeds (if using) to the gram flour batter, and mix
thoroughly.
Into a teacup, add some gram flour batter, then add a quarter teaspoon of fruit salt or bicarbonate of
soda, stir vigorously, and immediately pour onto the heated pan in a circular motion.
Work very quickly to make the pancake circular, thin and approximately 6 inches in diameter.
While the top side of the pancake is wet, sprinkle the chopped coriander, spinach, tomatoes and
onions onto it.
Cook the pancake on medium heat, and don’t let it burn.
After a couple of minutes, check whether the pancake is easy to lift off the pan and if the
underside has cooked to golden brown. Add oil to the pancake edge if necessary to lift the
pancake.
If the pancake has turned to golden brown, turn the pancake over and let it cook on the other
side. If not, add a little oil to the pancake edge let it cook.
When cooked on both sides, remove the cooked pancake and serve.
Makes 4 pancakes.
Preparation
Serves 4-8 – depending on whether it is served as a side dish or main course 
Method
Put parsnip pieces on to steam – about 15 minutes, but test with a sharp knife after 10. You want neither hard and woody nor mushy.
Meanwhile, heat oil in a medium heavy-bottomed saucepan.
Lightly cook garlic, chilli and ginger for 1-2 minutes. Add cumin powder and cook a further minute, stirring well. Take off the heat and set aside.
When parsnips are cooked, add to the pan with garlic mixture and heat through, gently stirring.
Add coconut milk and heat to a simmer. Add lime zest, lime juice and beans. Stir in well, ensuring heated through. Check seasoning.
Sprinkle with fresh coriander and serve immediately.
Method
Heat olive oil in a large saucepan. Add roughly chopped onion and crushed garlic cloves. Fry until soft.
Add chopped rosemary and fry for 1 minute or so.
Add parsnips (peeled and cut in 1cm thick slices).
Add vegetable stock. Bring to boil, then cook covered under medium heat for 15-20 mins until parsnips are soft.
When the parsnips are soft, add 2/3 frozen peas and cook for 8 mins until peas are cooked.
Puree the vegetables with a liquidiser until the soup is smooth. Add more water or stock to desired consistency. Season to taste.
Add a 1/3 of frozen peas left. Bring back to the boil and cook for another 8 mins under medium heat until peas are cooked.
Serve with a slice of chunky bread.
Method
Line baking sheets with parchment paper. Preheat the oven to 350 F.
In a medium bowl, whisk okara and all-purpose flours, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.
In a large bowl, whisk the brown sugar with hot water. Add the coconut oil, almond butter, and vanilla and whisk until smooth. Stir in flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts (if using).
*Baker’s Secret: Cookies are extra delicious if you rest the dough for 1 hour or more before baking.
Place heaping tablespoons of dough 2” apart on lined pans. Bake 14-16 minutes in preheated oven, rotating pans half way, until cookies are golden brown. Set pans on a rack to cool.
Inspired by this recipe? Why not check out our Top 10 Vegan Desserts blog?
Preparation
Tips:
If your peppers don’t sit upright in the saucepan because there is space around them, then squeeze an onion or a potato in next to them to make them sit tight.
Add some olive oil to the pan of boiling water the peppers cook in. This will add a bit of flavour and soften them up nicely.
If you’d prefer to use white rice, just cut out the first stage. Add your rice into the onion mixture without pre-cooking it.
Method
Cook the brown rice for half of the time it suggests on the packet.
While the rice is cooking you can prep the peppers and filling – Wash the peppers and cut the tops off, making sure the green stalk is still attached so you can use the top of the pepper for a lid. De-seed and place all six in a saucepan so they stand upright. Set aside.
Dice the onion and gently fry in a medium sized frying pan with a little olive oil. Dice the courgette into small pieces and add to the pan along with the crushed garlic. Add the currants and spices.
By this time your rice should be ready. Drain it and add it to the pan. Stir to combine everything, turn up the heat and add your stock. Once it starts bubbling turn down to a low heat and let simmer until the liquid has evaporated and the rice has fully cooked. Add more liquid if needed. Once cooked, taste and season.
Spoon the rice into the peppers, filling them to the top, then place the top of the pepper back on. Repeat, so all six peppers are filled.
Carefully pour some boiling water into the saucepan, which the peppers are sitting in, making sure not to pour it over the peppers. The water should come up to about half the height of the peppers. Put a lid on, turn the hob onto a medium heat and let them simmer for 30 -45 minutes until the peppers have softened.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Method
Steam the beans for 3-5 minutes, until tender. Rinse under cold water.
Place beans in a liquidizer or similar – chop them finely to hummus consistency. Add salt, lemon juice and finely chopped mint, blend until smooth adding olive oil gradually until you achieve the consistency you want.
Add more olive oil if needed, once smooth, add zest and seasoning. Add more olive oil on top.
Serve with crusty bread, carrots and celery.
Preparation
Soak the nuts (and seeds if using) overnight with the salt.
(Whole nuts can cause digestive issues for some, which is largely due to their phytate content, an anti-nutrient that removes essential minerals from the body, and is found in grains, nuts and seeds. Soaking them and gently roasting them as we do in this recipe removes the phytates, thus making them more digestible and much safer to eat. Adding sesame or peanut flour adds extra yum plus protein, and they are free from sugar which makes them low carb too.) 
Method
Drain and rinse the soaked nuts well.
Place on a baking sheet and roast at GM4/350F/180C for 12-15 mins, checking and stirring regularly. Cool.
Roughly chop half the nuts. Process the rest until they begin to form a paste.
Melt together the almond butter and coconut oil, Sukrin Gold, vanilla and until the Gold is dissolved.
Stir in the nut paste and nuts, any additions and the Sesame Flour.
Pack into a lined dish, allow to sit in the fridge for an hour before slicing and serving.
Preparation
Guacamole
Put everything in a food processor and blitz for about 10 seconds, making sure you keep some of the texture. If you feel like getting more hands on, do it the traditional way, using a pestle and mortar.
Adjust the chilli, lime and salt and pepper to your taste.
Salsa
Simply mix everything together thoroughly, and adjust the chilli, lime and salt and pepper to your taste.
Method
In a large bowl, mix the 3 different types of beans, the celery, onion, parsley, and rosemary.
In a separate small bowl, whisk together the vinegar, sugar, olive oil, salt, and pepper. Add the dressing to the beans. Toss to coat.
Chill the salad in the fridge for a few hours, allowing the beans to soak up the flavour of the dressing.
Heat up the Pie so that it is warmed through.
Serve the salad with the Pie when ready.
Preparation
Serves 20.
Method
Drain the dates then add them, along with the oats and cashew nut butter, to a food processor.
Blend until they have formed a smooth, sticky paste.
Place the mixture in the fridge for ten minutes – this will make it easier to roll into balls.
Separate the mix into small portions, roll into balls and roll in the extra oats until they are fully coated.
Store in the fridge.
Preparation
Heat the oil in a frying pan and add the chickpeas, onions and garlic with some seasoning. Gently cook for a few minutes until the onions begin to soften, before adding the sultanas and curry powder. Continue to cook, stirring, until the spices are fragrant. Leave to cool.
Once cooled, lightly mash the chickpeas so that some still remain whole. Stir in the mango chutney, mayonnaise and season to taste.
Spread the mixture liberally over the bread, adding lettuce and onion. Serve immediately.
Method
As a side for four people:
Chop the potatoes in half. Place the halves on the chopping board and cut strips half way down along the potato.
Once all the potatoes are done place in a big mixing bowl with the spices and oil. Using your hands coat each potato, making sure that oil goes into the crevices.
Place in a baking tray and put in the oven at 170C°. The cooking time depends on the size of the potato, but it is normally between 30min and an hour. Every 10minutes or so it is good to shake the baking tray to make sure that the potatoes are not sticking.
Et voila! The finished result: crispy, herbie goodness : )
Preparation
Please click for Marinara Sauce recipe
Please click for Pumpkin Seed and Sun Dried Tomato Pesto recipe
Method
On a medium to high heat, warm 1 tsp of the olive oil in a large, non-stick pan. Slice the mushrooms and the garlic and add these to the pan.
While the mushrooms and garlic are sautéing, chop the aubergine into cubes no larger than 1cm. Add the second tsp of oil and the aubergine cubes to the pan and give it a good stir.
Cook for about 10 minutes, until the aubergine cubes are lightly browned and soft. Roughly chop the sage leaves and add these too.
Bring a large pan of water to the boil and add the spaghetti.
You can now stir the marinara sauce into the pan with the aubergines and lower the heat, so it can bubble away while the spaghetti cooks.
Around 5 minutes before the pasta is ready spoon some of the pasta cooking water into the sauce until you have a consistency you’re happy with. The aubergines suck up a lot of the sauce, so this helps to loosen it all up again.
Once the spaghetti is ready drain it and add it to the sauce. Give it all a nice stir and spoon into bowls. To serve, dot the pesto around the bowl and sprinkle on some fresh basil.
Method
Place the cashews in a heat proof bowl and cover with boiling water, set aside for 15 minutes. 
Pre heat your oven to 200 degrees Celsius. 
Drain the cashews and place them into a blender with the Califia Farms Unsweetened Almond Milk, onion powder, salt, pepper, corn starch, vinegar and mustard and blend until smooth. 
Place the sliced potatoes into a bowl and pour over ¼ of the sauce mixture, stir to coat each potato slice. 
Place the potato slices in a baking tray alternating sizes and adding in a slice of onion every so often.  
Once the tray is full, pour over the remaining sauce to fill the tray, if using cheese add that on top now.  
Cover tightly with foil and bake for 35 minutes, then remove the foil and bake for a further 30 minutes or until browned and the potatoes are soft. 
Sprinkle some fresh rosemary or chives on top and serve immediately. 
Preparation
Note: You don’t need skill but you do need extra time to make these cookies: Make sure you allow 30 minutes for whisking and allowing the dough to thicken. And remember when using melted coconut oil, all the other ingredients need to be at room temperature or the oil will harden into lumps during mixing.
Makes 1 dozen cookies
Method
Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 375°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Place a wire mesh strainer over a medium bowl. Add the baking mix, cocoa, cinnamon, salt, and baking powder to the strainer and stir with a whisk to sift the ingredients into the bowl. (If any small bits remain in the strainer, add them to the mixture in the bowl.) Add the pepper if using; whisk to aerate the mixture, and set aside.
Make the chia gel: Put the ground chia seeds into a small bowl. Pour the hot water over the chia and set aside for 1 minute. Whisk for 30 seconds. (The paste will be thick.)
Whisk the nondairy milk into the chia paste until combined. Let sit for 5 minutes and whisk again. Whisk in the maple syrup and vanilla until combined. Let sit for 5 minutes and whisk again.
Add 5 tablespoons of the sugar and whisk vigorously for 1 minute to “cream” the sugar. Add the coconut oil and whisk until thoroughly incorporated. Add to the dry ingredients and mix with a silicone spatula until no traces of dry ingredients remain.
Mix the chocolate chunks into the dough—it will be shiny and thick but soft. Set aside for 15 to 20 minutes at room temperature to allow the dough to thicken, stirring every five minutes.
Shape the cookies: Put 1/3 cup of the remaining sugar into a shallow dish. Scoop the dough in a measuring tablespoon and push off into the sugar with a teaspoon. Roll the pieces in the sugar until thoroughly coated. Add more sugar as needed. Lift the cookies onto the parchment-lined baking sheet, placing them 2 inches apart. Press to flatten.
Place the baking sheet into the oven; immediately reduce the heat to 350°F, and bake for 11 minutes until the cookies are puffed and set. The cookies are soft when they come out of the oven but will firm as they cool.
Place the baking sheet on a wire rack. Wait 10 minutes until the cookies are cool, then run a spatula underneath to release.
Serving: Cold cookies offer up the crunch of hardened chocolate chunks, and warm cookies are gooey.
Keeping: Store the cookies in a covered tin or jar, layers separated by parchment, for up to two days. Freeze for up to one month.
Preparation
Serves 8-12
You will need an 8 inch/20 cm cake tin with removable base for this recipe
Despite its steps, it is incredibly easy to make and keeps really well (opt for an airtight tin or if pushed, a big freezer bag clipped over a plate) making it a real cut-and-come-again type bake, ideal for a friends and family do or a weekend when you know lots of people will be coming by.  
Method
Preheat the oven to 180c and lightly grease and line the cake tin.
Place the margarine, syrup and brown sugar (or coconut sugar) into a saucepan and heat gently over a low heat, stirring every now and then, until the sugar has completely dissolved. Take off the heat and pour into a large mixing bowl and leave to cool for 10 minutes.
Trim the ends from the carrots and core the apple, finely grate both – I don’t worry about peeling either the apple or carrots (though I do give them a good scrub first) but please, feel free to peel both if you want to.
Spoon the apple puree into the syrup mixture and stir together, sift over the flour, baking powder and mixed spice and fold together. Next, add the grated apple, carrot and the ground flaxseed and fold together until completely combined and fragrant. Pour the cake mixture into the prepared tin and then bake in the oven for 1 hour – 1 hour 10 minutes or until risen and golden and firm to the touch.
Leave the cake to cool in its tin for 5 minutes and then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. Place the icing sugar into a mixing bowl and add the lemon juice, bit by bit, until the desired consistency. Spread over the cake and scatter over the lemon and orange zest.
Like this recipe? Sign up to Veganuary today to get recipes like this delivered directly to your inbox.
Preparation
To Make the Dal:
Place a medium saucepan over a medium heat and add the vegetable oil. Bring to temperature before adding the onion and frying for a few minutes. Do not allow the onion to brown.
Add the garlic and fry for a further few minutes before adding the turmeric, garam masala and tomatoes. Cook for a few minutes, stirring often, until the tomatoes start to lose their shape. Add the dal/lentils along with the boiling water or vegetable stock. Bring to a simmer before covering and turning the heat to low.
Allow the dal to cook for a total of 20-30 minutes, removing the lid to stir regularly. The dal is done when the lentils are completely soft but still hold their shape slightly.
Season with sea salt to taste.
To Make the Tarka:
Add the oil to a small saucepan or frying pan and place over a medium low heat. Once the oil is hot, add all the remaining ingredients except the garlic. Stirring constantly, fry the spices for around a minute – do not allow them to burn.
Once the spices are fried and the oil has taken on a slight red hue from the chilli, add the garlic and fry very briefly before removing from the heat and spooning over the cooked dal. Serve with some fresh coriander and some basmati rice or roti (optional).
Preparation
This recipe serves 2
Method
How to make the savoury tomatoes:
Chop the tomatoes
Chop the chilli – amount determined by your love of spice!
Put the coconut oil in a pan
When it warms up, add the Rye and Jiru and put the lid on the pan
When it pops, add the chillies and cover the pan again
After about 15 seconds, add the chopped tomatoes
Add the salt, turmeric and ground coriander powder
Let it cook
When it’s as soft as you’d like add the coriander – this is usually after 5 minutes for me
How to make for the cous cous:
Boil the kettle
Put the cous cous in a bowl
Crumble the stock on to the cous cous ensuring there are no lumps
Mix it up
Drizzle some olive oil on it
Add water so that the level of water reaches about 1cm above the cous cous
Add some freshly ground salt and pepper
Stir a little
Cover the bowl with a plate and leave it for about 3 minutes
The water should be absorbed and the cous cous will be ready
Serving: Put the cous cous in a little bowl and turn it upside down to present the cous cous as shown in the photo.
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 350f.
Method
Halve and pit the cherries. Spread on a baking tray and roast for 15-20 minutes until soft. Set aside to cool.
Next make the cookie dough, in a bowl beat together the butter and sugar. Sift in the flour and salt. Stir until fully combined. Set aside.
Make the cashew cream. Drain and rinse the soaked cashews then add them to the blender. Add 1 cup water and blend on high until completely smooth. Set aside.
Make the almond coconut whip. Beat the coconut cream in a stand mixer then add the almond extract. Pour in the cashew cream and beat again until fully incorporated. Pour into a container and set aside.
Make the vegan meringue. Clean the mixer bowl. Pour the chickpea brine into a saucepan and reduce on a medium heat for 5 minutes. You should end up with just shy of 3/4 of a cup of liquid. Add chickpea brine to the mixer bowl. Beat on high with the balloon whisk attachment for 5-8 minutes.
Once the soft peaks appear, add the cream of tartar. Beat for another 5 minutes, then slowly start adding the sugar bit by bit.
Whilst the meringue is whipping, using your hands break off fingernail sizes of the cookie dough and set aside.
Once the meringue has formed stiff peaks, immediately fold in the cashew coconut cream mixture. It will deflate by almost half. Stir in the roasted cherries and cookie dough.
Pour the ice cream mixture into a container and place in the freezer for at least 8 hours, preferably overnight. Remove from the freezer 5-10 minutes before serving.
Method
1. Peel the sweet potato, dice into cubes, and boil for ten minutes or until soft. When ready, drain.
2. Whilst the sweet potato is boiling, put the rest of the ingredients into a blender or Nutribullet, starting with the wet ingredients, then adding the dry ones. Add your cooked sweet potato when ready.
3. Blend until smooth and creamy.
4. At this point, set aside any sauce you don’t want to use right away and pop in the fridge or freezer.
5. To cook the sauce, pour into a non-stick saucepan or frying pan on a medium heat. Cook for 3-5 minutes until the sauce thickens and is hot but not boiling, then turn the heat down as it thickens. Make sure to stir continually with a flat bottomed spatula to stop anything sticking to the pan.
6. When the sauce is thick and silky like a custard, take off the heat and add it to your favourite recipe immediately! (We like to pour over cooked macaroni, add a herby breadcrumb crumb and bake for 20 minutes in the oven for an easy and delicious mac n cheeze.)
Method
Yellow Curry Paste:
Place all ingredients except coconut milk in a blender and blend well to a paste, gradually adding the coconut milk to get the right consistency.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two weeks.
To use, stir fry about 4 tbsp for about a minute until fragrant, then add some coconut milk and/or water to make a curry or use as below for noodle soup.
Noodle Soup:
Cook the noodles as per package instructions and set aside.
Add the onion to a medium saucepan with a dash of water or oil or cooking spray and saute for about 5 minutes on a low-medium heat until starting to soften. Add the curry paste and saute for a further minute until fragrant.
Add the coconut cream and about 250ml/1 cup of water and stir to make a broth.
Add in the pepper and chopped coriander stalks (reserving the leaves) and cook for a few minutes until it just comes to the boil then add the spinach and allow to wilt, adding more water as you feel necessary to keep a creamy broth consistency. Stir through half of the coriander leaves, roughly chopped.
Divide the noodles between serving bowls then spoon the broth over and garnish with slices of chili and coriander leaves.
Method
1. Roughly chop the OmniPork strips and add to the OmniPork mince. Season with salt and black pepper. Add the corn starch and mix well. Put in fridge to chill for 30 mins.
2. Use clingfilm to form the mince mixture into a log shape approximately 20cm in length. Leave in fridge to chill whilst preparing the mushroom duxelles.
3. For the mushroom duxelles, dice the mushrooms and onions finely (or use a food processor). Cook the diced mushrooms and onions over a medium heat, season with black pepper, salt and thyme leaves, until all the water is cooked off. Roughly chop the chestnuts and add to the mixture. Set aside and let it cool down completely.
4. Heat a pan with a good lug of oil and add a small bunch of thyme. Season the Omni log generously with black pepper and salt and sear all sides over high heat. Whilst the Omni log is still hot, use a pastry brush and cover it with mustard.
5. Unroll the puff pastry and spread the mushroom duxelles so that they will cover the entire Omni log once rolled over.
6. Place the Omni log on top of the mushroom duxelles and use a non-dairy milk to wash the edges of the puff pastry. Carefully roll over the puff pastry, covering the entire Omni log. Cut off any excess pastry and pinch to seal the ends.
7. Optional (skip to step 8)– Wash the pastry with non-diary milk and place a lattice pastry on top using the second pack of puff pastry roll. Wash the lattice work with non-dairy milk, season with salt and bake for 30mins in a preheated oven at 200c.
8. Preheat the oven to 200c. Wash the pastry with non-diary milk and, if not using a lattice top, carve the pastry with the back of a knife taking care not to cut through. Season with salt and place on an oiled baking tray. Cook for 30 mins.
Method
1. Prepare the jackfruit – Drain the can of jackfruit and trim the firm pointy ends off each piece and discard. Use a fork to make sure the jackfruit is well shredded.
2. Prepare the veg – Peel and thinly slice the onion, roughly dice the tomato and thinly slice the green chilli. Roughly chop the coriander and chop the green beans into thirds. Set the prepared veg aside until required.
3. Fry the onions – Heat 3 tbsp of oil in a saucepan and add the brown mustard seeds, cumin seeds and cloves. Sizzle the spices for 1 minute before adding in the sliced onions and a pinch of salt. Fry until golden brown for 5 minutes. Fill and boil your kettle.
4. Add the aromatics and jackfruit – Next add the crushed ginger, garlic and green chilli and fry for 1 minute. Add chilli powder, turmeric, ground cumin and ground coriander, and fry for 1 more minute. Then add in the jackfruit pieces and 100ml of boiling water and simmer for 2 minutes.
5. Add the coconut milk and simmer – Pour in the coconut milk and add the palm sugar, then continue to simmer for 5 minutes.
6. Add the rest of the veg – Add the green beans and tomato and simmer gently for 10 minutes to allow the veg to soften and the sauce to thicken. After 10 minutes, cover the pan with a lid and remove from the heat.
7. Time to make the hoppers – Heat 1 tbsp of oil in your pan on a medium heat, then carefully swirl the oil around the pan to grease the sides. Pour in a ladle of the batter and swirl again, partially covering the sides of the pan with batter until you’ve achieved a bowl-shaped pancake about 8-10cm tall (a wider saucepan will make for a shorter hopper)
8. Cook the hopper – Cook the hopper uncovered for 1 minute then cover with a lid and cook for 2-3 minutes more until the edges are starting to crisp and the base is cooked through. Loosen the sides of the hooper gently to remove it from the pan. Repeat the process until you have 4 hoppers. Keep the hoppers in a warm place.
9. Finishing touches – Add the chopped coriander to the curry and stir through. Serve the hoppers on plates and fill with the jackfruit curry.
Preparation
Preheat the oven to 200f.
Line two baking trays with parchment paper or silpat mats.
I had some extra meringue mixture leftover so I mixed it up with some raw cacao powder and drizzled through some of the chocolate dip and froze it! Chocolate ice cream!
Method
First reduce the chickpea brine. Pour it into a saucepan and boil for 2-3 minutes until reduced 2/3 of a cup. Set aside to cool for at least ten minutes.
Once the brine is cool, add it to the stand mixer and beat on high until foamy. Once soft peaks form, add the cream of tartar. Beat for 3 minutes.
Start adding the maple syrup in 1/4 cup increments, pouring slowly and beating until fully incorporated. The meringue will form stiff peaks.
Beat in the vanilla bean paste. Spoon the mixture into a piping bag and pipe the meringue into medium sized rounds.
Repeat until there is no more space on the trays. Bake the meringues in the oven for 2 hours.
Remove the trays from the oven and allow the meringues to cool for 20 minutes.
Whilst the meringues are cooling, prepare the chocolate dip. In a heat proof bowl over a pan of boiling water, melt the chocolate and coconut oil, stirring to incorporate.
Once the meringues are cooled, carefully peel them off the paper and dip half of each into the chocolate mixture.
Store in an airtight container in the fridge.
Method
Wash and peel the potatoes.
Put half your potatoes on to boil.
Grate the other half of your potatoes into a bowl.
Put the grated potatoes into a tea-towel and squeeze out all the liquid until you have the dried potato gratings.
When the other potatoes are boiled mash them well using a potato masher.
Combine the grated potatoes and mashed potatoes in a bowl and add salt and pepper.
Add a tablespoon of flour into the potato mixture a mix in with your hands until you have a type of potatoey dough.
Sprinkle some flour over a dry counter and knead your dough for a few minutes.
Using a floured rolling pin roll out the dough and cut into squares or “farls”. The recipe I followed said to roll it out thinly but you can roll it out to whatever thickness you want.
Melt some vegan butter in a hot frying pan and add your boxty cakes to the pan. Brown them on each side and then lower the heat and let them cook through slowly. This should take around 10-15 minutes depending on how thick your boxty cakes are.
Enjoy your boxty for breakfast with vegan sausages and ketchup, or for your dinner with thyme fried mushrooms, fried cabbage, beans and vegan sausages.
Love this recipe? For your copy of our celebrity cookbook, more recipes, nutritional planners, meal plans and more, sign up to Veganuary. It’s 100% free!
Method
Preheat the oven to 200c.  Peel the butternut squash and scoop out any seeds or pith that may be there.  Cut into 1cm cubes and place in a roasting tray with 1 tbsp of olive oil.  Season well with sea salt and black pepper and roast in the oven for 40 minutes until golden and tender.
Roughly chop the sundried tomatoes and set aside. Place the ground flaxseed and water in a small bowl and stir together until combined.  Place the soured milk, flax mixture and olive oil into a large mixing bowl and gently whisk together.  Sift in the flour, baking powder and bicarbonate of soda, roast squash, sundried tomatoes and season well.  Fold the mixture together using a metal spoon until evenly combined.
Fill the muffin cases two thirds full with the mixture.  Bake in the oven for 45-50 minutes until slightly risen and golden.
Method
Combine the almond milk and apple cider vinegar. Set aside for 10 minutes. This will make a tasty buttermilk substitute!
In a large bowl, combine your dry ingredients. When ready, add the almond milk mixture, your extracts, and the canola oil. Mix with a wooden spoon until the clumps are mostly dissolved.
Warm a non-stick griddle over medium heat (at 350 degrees if you’re able to set it). Add dollops of dough at about 1/3 of a cup each to the griddle and cook for 3-4 minutes on each side.
Makes 8-10 pancakes.
Preparation
Serves 8.
The pie crust is suitable for freezing.
Method
Sweet Potato Filling:
Bake unpeeled sweet potatoes in the oven at 450F for 45-50 minutes, or until cooked all the way through.
Remove potatoes from oven and let cool enough to peel them.
Place an oven rack on 2nd to last shelf, then reheat thee oven to 350F.
Peel the potatoes then puree in a food processor.
Add egg replacer, agave, maple syrup, and vanilla to processor and mix well.
Heat cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger in a small skillet on medium-low heat for 30 seconds. Then add the margarine to the pan and melt.
Add the mixture to the potatoes and mix well.
Pour mixture into the piecrust then cover the rim of the piecrust with foil and place on bottom rack of the over.
Bake for 45-50 minutes where pie filling should be firm to touch.
Remove the foil during the last 10 minutes of baking to brown the crust.
Pie Crust:
Cut margarine into 1/2 inch pieces and place in the freezer for 15-30 minutes. In a small bowl mix egg replacer and water and sit to the side.
Combine the flour and salt in a bowl of a food processor or mixer. Pulse 5-6 times of until the mixture resembles coarse meal with some pea size pieces of margarine.
Mix together the egg replacer, water, agave and vanilla. With processor running, add the mixture until you get a slightly moist and sticky dough. Do not over mix. For gluten free dough its best to be too moist than dry.
Remove the dough from the machine and form into 2 evenly sized disks. Wrap each disk in plastic wrap and let sit 15 minutes.
To roll the dough, lay a piece of waxed or parchment paper on a work surface and sprinkle paper, sprinkle some more flour and lay on another piece of parchment paper. Roll the dough into a circle approximately 12 inches wide.
Remove top sheet of parchment paper and invert dough into pie/tart pan. Remove the top sheet of parchment paper and push the dough very gently down so it lines the bottom and sides of the pie plate. If the dough splits or breaks just push it back together. Trim the edge of the piecrust to about 1/2 – 3/4 inch over hand. Tuck the overhand under and pinch the dough into a decorative finish.
The other crust can either be used as a topping or can be refrigerated for up to 2 -3 days or frozen. Let sit out to warm slightly if in the fridge before use.
Method
Mash the adzuki beans in a bowl and add the onion, seeds, tamari or shoyu and some fresh or dried sage/herbs of your choice and mix well.  Next add enough flour to bind the mixture together, but just enough so it remains slightly sticky.
Form into burger shapes (flour your hands so the mixture does not stick to them)
Heat a heavy bottomed pan and fry the burgers in a generous amount of hot oil in a frying pan for 3-4 minutes on each side.
Serve with baked pumpkin slices on top and drizzle with a reduced sauce.
Quick Tip – purchase canned organic beans.
Preparation
Serves 4 as a starter.
Method
Thinly slice the red onion and fry in a little olive oil on medium heat until soft and beginning to colour. Set aside to cool.
Drain and mash the chestnuts and stir in the brandy.
To make the bread crumbs you can grate the bread or wizz it in the food processor. Alternatively, if the bread is not too moist then just rub between your fingers to until it breaks down into a fine crumb.
Mash the breadcrumbs in with the chestnut mix and stir through the chopped olives.
Finely chop the garlic and add to the chestnut mix along with the thyme leaves, cayenne pepper and cooked red onion. Season to taste.
Perfect served alongside toasted rye bread or oatcakes and accompanied by a glass of brandy or port.
Method
Heat your oven to 200c/390f/GM6. Mix the squash with 1tbsp oil, put the squash on a baking tray with 2 garlic cloves. Bake for 15-20 minutes until the squash is cooked through. Be sure to check the garlic during this time, remove it from the oven once it is soft inside. If the garlic cloves are small they will not need long in the oven.
Once cooked blend the squash with the roasted garlic, salt, allspice and cinnamon.
Heat 1tbsp oil in a large frying pan. Once the oil is hot add the onion and carrot. Cook for 10-15 minutes on a medium heat until the onion is translucent. Add the mushrooms and garlic to the pan, cook for a further 5-10 minutes until the mushroom is browned.
Add the lentils, water, stock, salt, pepper and sage to the pan. Simmer for 20-30 minutes until the lentils are very soft. Add splashes of water if the pan dries out.
In a food processor or the chopper attachment of a hand blender grind the oats, walnuts and seeds. Grind the pink peppercorns in a pestle and mortar.
Layer the gateau using a small cake tin or chef’s rings. Start with a thin layer of squash, then add a layer of lentils, then squash, the lentils, then squash. Bake for 10-20 minutes until completely heated through.
Add the nut/seed sprinkle and place the gateau on servings plates. Dress with a scattering of crushed pink peppercorns.
Method
1. Sauté the onion with little bit of olive oil for  a couple minutes on a high heat.
2. Add the carrots and the celery stalks.
3. When the carrots get a little bit softer, turn off the heat and put the veggies in a bowl. Set aside.
4. Using the same pot, put a layer of celery root (celeriac) and on top of it a layer of veggie mixture, and repeat to fill the pot with these layers. Add some salt and pepper on every layer.
5. Put all the citrus zest and juice on the top, add the water and another drizzle of olive oil.
6. Cut parchment paper to the same size as the pot and put it on top as the last layer.
7. Put a lid on, and start cooking over a low heat for about 40 minutes.
8. After half an hour check the liquid and tenderness (if there is not enough liquid you should add some to avoid burning the bottom).
9. After the celery roots have become soft, turn off the heat.
10. Serve, and garnish with chopped parsley and a drizzle of olive oil .
Preparation
Serves: 4
Preparation time: 5 minutes, plus 10 minutes standing time
Cooking time: 30 minutes
Method
Preheat the oven to 180C, Gas Mark 4 and lightly grease a 1 litre ovenproof dish
Remove the crusts from the bread, then cover each slice with the soya spread and cut in half to form triangles
To make the custard, place the custard powder in a small bowl and blend with 2 tablespoons of soya milk
Place the remaining milk and the Nākd Cocoa Orange Fruit & Nut Bits in a medium saucepan, with the orange rind and heat until nearly boiling. Add some of this mixture to the custard and mix well
Return to the pan, along with the remaining milk and whisk over a medium heat, until the mixture starts to thicken. Add the orange juice and simmer gently for 1-2 minutes
Pour a little of the chocolate custard into the bottom of the dish, then arrange half the bread over the top, in overlapping rows. Sprinkle over a little of the chopped chocolate, cover with more of the chocolate custard and arrange the remaining bread over the top
Sprinkle over the remaining chocolate, then pour over the remaining custard ensuring that all the bread is covered. Leave to stand for 10 minutes
Cook for 20-25 minutes until bubbling and allow to stand for 5 minutes before serving
Preparation
Serves eight
Method
Preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F and spray an 8 inch tart pan with non stick spray.
In a large bowl, whisk together the oats, flour and salt. Make a well and add the coconut oil, maple syrup, vanilla and milk. Then, fold through the chocolate chips and pecans.
Meanwhile, place all of the caramel ingredients into a pan over a low-medium heat and gently heat, avoiding stirring, just until all of the sugar has dissolved (it will caramelise in the oven, do not caramelise on the stove as it will become bitter when baking).
Spread the cookie dough into the pan, making a few shallow indentations for pools of caramel to sit.
Pour a thin layer of caramel over the cookie, it’s good to keep some behind to heat further on the stove to make a sauce for drizzling.
Bake until puffed and golden, about 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and let the dangerously hot caramel cool a little before slicing, the inside should be warm and gooey.
Method
Mix together the flour and baking powder in a large bowl. Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients and whisk in the milk to make a thick smooth batter.
Beat in the mashed banana and melted dairy-free Flora then gently stir in half the blueberries.
Heat a teaspoon of oil in a large non-stick frying pan. Drop a large tablespoonful of the batter per pancake into the pan to make pancakes about 7.5cm across. Make three or four pancakes at a time.
Cook for about 3 minutes over a medium heat until small bubbles appear on the surface of each pancake, then turn over and cook for a further 2-3 minutes until golden.
Transfer onto a plate and cover to keep warm whilst you repeat using the remaining batter.
Serve warm with maple syrup and the rest of the blueberries.
Method
Mix the crushed biscuits in a bowl with the melted vegan butter.  Tip the crumbs into a 20cm loose bottomed cake tin and press into the base and sides. Chill until set. 
For the caramel, put the remaining vegan butter, sugar and Carnation Vegan condensed milk alternative into a large non-stick saucepan. Put the cornflour into a bowl and gradually add 5tbsp  of the cream (saving the rest to whip for the topping later).  Whisk the mixture until smooth, then add the paste to the pan.  Heat until the sugar has melted then gradually bring the mixture to a rapid boil for 5- 7minutes, stirring all the time until you reach 113-115°C on a sugar thermometer. Leave to cool for a few minutes. 
Carefully pour the caramel over the base, cool and then chill for 1-2 hours or until set. 
When ready to serve; whip the remaining plant-based cream with the vanilla until soft peaks form.  Slice the bananas and scatter over the caramel, then top with the whipped cream. Finish with chocolate shavings and serve. 
Preparation
1. Preheat the oven to 200C / gas mark 6.
2. Trim the ends of the beetroot. Leaving the skin on, cut the beetroot and potatoes into small 1 cm cubes and place on baking tray. Drizzle over 1/2 tsp oil and place in the oven for 20 mins, turning halfway through.
3. Meanwhile, drain and rinse the black beluga lentils and finely chop or crush the garlic and finely chop the dill. Heat a frying pan with 1/2 tsp oil on a medium heat and cook the garlic for 1 minute, then add the lentils for a further 5 mins and season with sea salt and black pepper. Stir through half of the chopped dill and leave to cool slightly for 5 mins.
4. Peel and de-stone the avocado and roughly chop. Thinly slice the radishes. Mix the lentils with the mixed leaves, roasted beetroot and potatoes, avocado and radish slices.
5. To make a sauce; in a small bowl, mix the coconut yoghurt with the remaining dill and a squeeze of lemon juice. Season with sea salt and black pepper.
6. Spoon the Scandi-style lentils onto two warm plates and drizzle over the coconut yoghurt and dill sauce.
Method
Pop your courgettes through the spiraliser, to create long courgette curls.
Toss them in olive oil, season and cook in a frying pan for 3 minutes.
Once the courgette is nicely al dente, stir through the pesto quickly, whilst it’s still over the heat.
Sprinkle with pine nuts and serve immediately.
Preparation
Throw your mixed berries into a blender
Add in your 3 tablespoons of Alpro No Sugars alternative to yoghurt
Now it’s time to add in your Alpro Soya No Sugars Drink and rolled oats
Whizz, pour, enjoy! 
Method
Preheat the oven to 190°C/fan 170°C/gas 5. Grease a square brownie tin, line with baking paper and set aside.
Put the coconut oil and sugar into a large bowl and mix well with an electric whisk or by hand. Add the vanilla seeds and the yoghurt and beat well until everything is combined. Add the agave syrup and beat this in too.
Put the flour, baking powder and salt into a mixing bowl and mix well.
Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and mix thoroughly until nicely combined. Bit by bit add the milk, then fold in the chopped chocolate.
Pour the batter into the brownie tin and spread with a spoon or spatula. Bake for 35–40 minutes, until the top is firm and brown.
Allow to cool completely, then cut into little squares. The yoghurt in these means they will keep gooey and fresh for at least a week.
Preparation
For this recipe I have used dark vegan chocolate instead of chocolate chips. Cacao nibs are also great, you just don’t get that satisfying melt.
Makes 15 small cookies.
Method
1. Heat the oven to 180°C / 350°F / Gas Mark 4.
2. Put the coconut oil into a ramekin and melt it in the oven.
4. Put all of the ingredients except the salt in a bowl and mix by hand until completely combined. Leave it in the fridge for ten minutes.
5. Take a teaspoon of the mixture, roll it into a ball and place it on a parchment paper-lined tray. Repeat until all of the cookie mixture is used up.
6. Using your thumb, flatten each cookie ball gently and sprinkle a couple of flakes of the pink salt into each thumb print.
7. Cook for no more than 12 minutes, you don’t want burnt chocolate!
I like to wait for these to cool down a little before tucking in, and I store them in the fridge. For an extra treat (although not a guilty one) fill the thumb prints with some toffee cashew cream. Yum!
Method
Serves 2.
Provamel Rice Coco Pineapple Drink helps to make this Vegan Laksa.
Method
1. Preheat the oven to 180 degrees.
2. Blend all ingredients on high until you’re left with a runny batter.
3. Pour into a small oven-safe dish (stir in chocolate chips here) and cook in the oven for 10 minutes.
4. Remove from the oven and top with another Choc Pot and serve hot.
Notes: If you don’t have a blender, it won’t be the same cake-like consistency, but you can mix all ingredients in a mixing bowl, add another 1/4cup milk and then cook for 10-12 minutes. Still delicious.
Method
1. Start by making the peanut sauce. Measure all the ingredients into a small saucepan, place over a low heat and heat, stirring continuously, until the mixture just begins to bubble. Remove from the heat and set aside.
2. Place the noodles in a heatproof bowl, pour over boiling water to cover and leave to soak for 10 minutes until rehydrated. Drain well and return to the dried-out bowl. Drizzle over the sesame oil and toss the noodles to evenly coat in the oil.
3. Fill a separate bowl with hot water. Take a rice paper wrapper and dip in the hot water for about 5 seconds until soft and pliable – they really don’t need long.
4. Lay the wrapper on a board and, working quickly, arrange some of the herb leaves down the centre of the wrapper. Then take a little of each of the thinly cut vegetables to create a neat pile in the centre of the wrapper. Finally, place a small bundle of rehydrated noodles on the very top of the veg. Fold in the edges of the wrapper over the veggies and then roll up.
5. Repeat with the remaining wrappers, herbs, veg and noodles.
6. Cut each roll in half to expose the pretty rainbow colours of the vegetables and serve with the warm peanut sauce.
Method
In a food processor or blender, mix together the oats and chickpeas. Pour contents into a large bowl.
In the same food processor or blender (no need to wash), add the remaining ingredients and whizz. Pour into the bowl containing the oats – chickpea mixture. Mix well.
Using your hands, mould the mixture into 5-6 large patties.
Chill for 20 minutes or overnight to firm up.
Pan fry in a little coconut oil for 7-8 mins, or grill or barbecue for 10-12 mins, turning half-way through to cook both sides.
Serve. I love serving mine with guacamole and lots of fresh salad.
Method
Roast the pine nuts in a hot pan until toasted. Allow the nuts to cool down completely. 
Into a blender, place all the pesto ingredients apart from the olive oil. Process until chopped small and then start trickling in olive oil while the motor is going. 
Adjust the seasoning to your taste. 
Boil a large pan of water and cook your pasta. 
Prepare the vegetables in a separate pan, stir-fry the courgette and asparagus for 2 minutes. Boil the peas for 2 minutes. 
Drain your pasta and toss it in the pesto, coconut collaborative yoghurt and mix the veggies in and serve. 
For the topping, scatter toasted pumpkin seeds and chilli flakes.
Did you like this recipe? Browse more delicious vegan pasta recipes!
Method
Preheat the oven at 220ºC/425ºF/Gas 7.
Roll out the pastry and place in a 23cm loose bottomed tart tin.
Prick the pastry all over with a fork.
Place a sheet of parchment paper inside the pie and fill with baking beads.
Blind bake the pastry for 5mins.
In the meantime slice the tomatoes.
Once the pastry has been blind baked, remove baking beads and parchment paper and brush the dijon mustard on the pastry so it is evenly coated.
Sprinkle 1-2 tbsp semolina (or breadcrumbs) to absorb liquid from tomatoes.
Place the tomato slices on top.
Sprinkle with dry herbs.
Drizzle some olive oil on top.
Cook for 20mins at 220ºC/425ºF/Gas 7. Decrease oven temperature to 190ºC/375ºF/Gas 5 for another 10mins.
The tomato tart is cooked once the pastry is slightly brown and tomato skin curled a little.
Serve hot or cold with a salad.
Instructions
Prep: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Make your flax eggs in a small bowl, let set for at least 10 minutes to thicken while oven in heating, stir occasionally. Lightly grease a 9 x 13 pan with oil.
Measure: In a large bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. In a medium bowl, mash the bananas. Measure the milk, oil and vanilla, you can easily combine these in a 2 cup measuring cup.
Combine: Add the plant milk, oil, vanilla, and flax eggs to the flour mixture. Mix until just combined. Stir in the mashed bananas.
Pour: Once mixed, pour batter into a 9 x 13 baking dish. If needed, spread the batter evenly using a spatula or back of a spoon.
Bake: Bake for 45 – 55 minutes. If top starts to brown, top with foil.
Cool: Once done, let cool completely. If you’d like to cool it faster, after 30 minutes of cooling on the counter, you can put the dish in the refrigerator to finish cooling.
Frosting: While the cake is baking, make the frosting. Add the soaked cashews, maple syrup, coconut cream, lemon juice and pinch of salt to a high speed blender. Blend until creamy smooth.
Assemble: Once completely cooled, spread the cashew buttercream frosting over top and enjoy often!
Store covered in the refrigerator if you prefer it chilled, or keep it on the counter and serve at room temperature.
Instructions
Beans: In a small mixing bowl, add refried beans and mash well, add cumin, chipotle powder and 1/4 cup of water, mix well to combine. The water will help make the beans creamy so they aren’t too thick for dipping, add a little extra water as needed. If you prefer, heat the bean mixture over low until warmed through before assembly.
Guacamole: To make this simple guacamole, slice avocado lengthwise, twist the two halves to open, and remove the seed. Squeeze out the flesh (or scoop it out with a spoon) and place in a medium bowl with the juice of 1 lime and salt. Mash well, and season to taste with salt.
Assemble: To layer the bean dip, using a shallow dish of choice (pie dish, baking dish, or bowl), start with a layer of beans, spreading to the edges. Next, repeat with a layer of guacamole, sour cream, and salsa. Next, add the corn, tomatoes, green onion, and olives. Top with cilantro.
Serve: Pair with your favorite tortilla chips.
Serves 8 – 10
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 2 – 3 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Combine: Place ingredients in container or bowl and mix well. 
Mix twice: Mix the chia mixture after 5 minutes, then again after 5 minutes, mixing well each time. Mixing the chia seeds is important so they don’t fall to the bottom of the container. If not shaken or stirred every now and then, the pudding will not set properly and the seeds will sink to the bottom.
Chill: Keep covered in the refrigerator until set. Will be ready in 3 – 4 hours.
Makes about 2 1/4 cups
Serve: Spoon into individual bowls or containers, and serve with fresh fruit, granola or whatever your heart desires that sounds good!
Store: Keep stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator.
Serves 4
Instructions
Mix: Place sugar in a small/medium size container and add the oil 1 tablespoon at a time, mixing in between. You want the consistency to be sandy, not soupy. If the mix is too soupy, the sugars will dissolve in a day or two and not slough the skin as well, but you will still get added moisture from the oil.
To Use: At the end of showering, pat the skin dry and gently rub the sugar scrub in a circular motion over your body, rinse well. I find it works best after soaking in the tub for at least 20 minutes. Soaking first will help soften the skin, allowing the scrub work to at its best, leaving your skin soft and supple!
It can be used 2 – 4 times a week (depending on the sugar type).
Store: Sugar scrub should be sealed when not in use and stored on a shower caddy or kept in a cabinet. It is best used within 1 month.
Instructions
Marinade: In a large bowl, mix together the marinade, add the tempeh and let set for at least 15 minutes, up to 4 hours in the refrigerator, turning every so often. Reserve marinade for later.
Cook Tempeh: Heat oil in a large skillet or wok over medium heat. Spoon in the tempeh, reserving most of the glaze in the bowl (set aside for later). Saute for 6 – 8 minutes, turning on each side until browned.
Add veggies: Add the cabbage and carrots to the tempeh, cook for about 3 minutes, add scallions, a spoonful of marinade and cook another 2 minutes or until desired firmness (I like mine al dente). Add a tad more marinade as needed, reserve the rest to spoon over serving bowls.
Serve: In individual bowls, add 1/3 of the stir fry with a 1/2 or so of grain of choice – White or brown rice, quinoa or soba noodles would all be great. This Cilantro Lime Rice would be especially delicious! Top with any remaining sauce, sesame seeds and few extra scallions and cilantro.
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Prep: Wash the cucumber and radishes. Cut the end off and thinly slice. Cut the larger pieces in half for easier eating. Dice the red onion, and drain and rinse the chickpeas.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, add the cucumber, radish, chickpea, dill, apple cider vinegar, oil, salt and pepper, toss well to coat. Season with more dill, salt and pepper to taste.
Serves 3, or 6 as a side
Instructions
Dressing: Start by mixing your dressing. In a small bowl combine tahini/mayo, vinegar, water and maple syrup. Set aside so the flavors come together. This can be made a day or two ahead and stored in the refrigerator until ready to use. Add a tad more water, or vinegar if you’re a vinegar lover, to thin out dressing as desired. If using vegan mayo, you may like to add 2 more tablespoons.
Mash chickpeas: In a medium to large bowl, add your garbanzo beans and roughly mash with a strong fork or potato masher. Mash at least 3/4 of the chickpeas so it binds well.
Assemble: Add in celery, cranberries, nuts, scallions, salt, pepper and dressing, mix well. Serve at room temp or let chill in the refrigerator for an hour before serving.
Serve: Serve on your favorite bread as a closed or open faced sandwich, or on a bed of leafy greens. You may even opt to simply enjoy the salad as is.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Prep apples: Wash your apples and slice in half. Using a teaspoon, scoop out the core. Remove any area from the stem and calyx (bottom indentation) of the apple. Place sliced apple half in standing position and cut into 1/4 inch slices. You should get 3 or 4 slices per half, depending on the size of your apple.
Assemble sandwich: Add 1 tablespoon of nut butter to both slices of your sandwich and layer one slice with apples. To the apples, add a sprinkle of cinnamon and 1 teaspoon of maple syrup over top. Place top half on sandwich.
Grill: Grease your griddle/skillet with coconut oil and heat over medium. You can also add a very light coating of coconut oil to the top of your bread slice using a silicon brush, or whatever method you prefer. Place sandwich, oil side down, and cook for about 2 – 4 minutes. Brush top half lightly with coconut oil, flip and cook another 2 – 4 minutes. Remove from heat and serve with any remaining fresh apple slices on the side.
Serves 2
Enjoy the simples!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Potatoes: If leaving the skins on, scrub the potatoes, and remove any unsightly blemishes. Alternately, peel the potatoes. Slice the potatoes into 1/8 inch slices using a mandolin, or manually with a knife. If manually slicing, do try to cut evenly as possible so potatoes will cook uniformly.
Cream Sauce: Add the cashews, milk and/or veg broth, nutritional yeast, garlic, onion powder, salt, pepper and lemon juice/vinegar to a high speed blender and blend until creamy, about 45 seconds to 1 minute. Taste for flavor, adding more of anything you like. Makes about 3 cups.
Assemble: In a 9 x 13 baking dish, pour a thin layer of sauce on the bottom of the dish, layer 1/2 of the potatoes, top with 1/2 cream sauce, and repeat. Top with a sprinkle of thyme, and any additional vegan cheese. Alternatively, after adding sauce to the bottom of the dish, make three rows of potatoes, layering them at an angle, pour sauce evenly overtop.
Bake: Place in oven, cover with lid, foil or silpat (see notes), and bake for 40 minutes. Remove cover and bake another 30 minutes, potatoes should be fork tender. Once done, sprinkle with a little more thyme, and let cool 5 – 10 minutes before serving.
Serve topped with optional chopped chives, parsley, or more fresh thyme and/or freshly ground pepper.
Store leftovers in an air container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Reheat in oven at 350, covered with foil, for 20 – 30 minutes, until warmed through.
Instructions
Pasta: Boil your elbow macaroni noodles until they are al dente, according to package directions. Drain the noodles and run them under cool running water to stop them from cooking.
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the ingredients for the creamy sauce.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, or pot you cooked the pasta, add the pasta, onion, bell pepper, carrots, celery, peas and dill. Pour the creamy sauce overtop and toss well to coat. Keep the salad chilled until ready to serve.
Serves 12
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl combine the dressing ingredients and mix well, set aside.
Assemble salad: In a large bowl, add the cucumber, bell peppers, tomatoes and onion. Pour dressing over vegetables and toss gently to coat.
Chill: Chill in the refrigerator for a few hours or enjoy at room temperature.
Serve: Salad can be enjoyed as is, or served on a bed of leafy greens or whole grain pasta..
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in an airtight container.
Instructions
Slow Cooker:
In 5 – 6 quart crockpot, place ingredients in the bottom starting with the carrots and ending with the liquids. 
Cook on LOW for 6 – 8 hours, or HIGH for 3 – 5 hours. Taste for seasoning, adding salt and pepper to taste.
Instant Pot: 
Set Instant Pot to SAUTE and add the 1 tablespoon olive oil or 1/4 cup water, onion, carrot, and celery, saute for 5 minutes, adding the herbs and garlic powder in the last minute (feel free to skip this step entirely adding everything to the pot and cooking).
Add quinoa, beans, cabbage, zucchini, tomatoes, red pepper flakes, salt, pepper, and vegetable broth, stir to combine.
Attach lid and turn to the lock, set the valve to SEALING, and manually set to HIGH pressure for 3 minutes (takes about 25 minutes to come to pressure). Let natural release for 10 minutes. Season to taste.
Stovetop: 
In a large pot or dutch oven, heat 1 tablespoon oil (or 1/4 cup water for water saute), add onions, carrots and celery, saute for 5 minutes. 
Add remaining ingredients, bring to a boil, cover, turn heat to low and simmer for 35 minutes – 1 hour. Taste for seasoning, adding salt and pepper to taste.
Serve with your favorite artisan bread. Add diced avocado for another layer of flavor.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in a covered container for 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Start by washing the beans. Rinse the beans under cool running water using a colander. Pick out and remove any odd shaped beans.
Add ingredients to the instant pot. Place the black beans in the bowl of the instant pot, add the onions, garlic, cumin, jalapeno (if using), bay leaves, salt, pepper and finish with the liquids.
Pressure cook the beans. Manually set the Instant Pot to HIGH pressure for 35 minutes, close the vent to SEAL. Once done, let the pressure cooker steam vent naturally for about 25 minutes.
Taste for flavor. Taste the beans, adding as much lime juice, salt and pepper as you like.
Beans will soak up the remaining liquids as they cool. Remove bay leaves before serving.
Makes about 5 cups. Serves 8 – 10, 1/2 cup per serving.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in a covered container in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. To keep longer, store in freezer safe containers or baggies for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Tofu: Start with the tofu by cubing it into 1/2 cubes and drying the cubes between a dish cloth or paper towels to remove excess moisture. Heat up a skillet nice and hot with a little oil, cook tofu, shaking the pan often to keep them from sticking, on each side for about 5 – 6 minutes, or until golden and lightly crispy looking. Sprinkle with garlic powder and season with salt. Set aside.
Noodles: Cook the noodles according to package directions, set aside.
Sauce: In a small bowl whisk together the tamari (soy sauce), pure maple syrup/mirin, sesame oil, and rice wine vinegar, and set aside. For a little heat, add a pinch of red pepper flakes or sriracha to taste.
Stir-Fry & Combine: Heat oil in a large skillet or wok over medium heat. Add in the onion, stir fry for 3 minutes. Add garlic, carrots, and red bell pepper, stir-fry until al dente, about 4 minutes. Add the noodles and sauce, toss well to combine. Add the tofu and scallions, mix again.
Serve right away with bean sprouts and fresh cilantro for garnish.
Serves 4
Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Or keep in the freezer for up to 3 months (defrost before heating).
Reheat: Lo mein can be reheated on the stovetop on low heat, until warmed through, adding extra sauce or veggie broth to bring back moisture as needed.
Instructions
Prepare the broth:
Place the onion and ginger on a small baking sheet. Place under the broiler until the onion and ginger becomes scorched and browned. Slice the ginger. 
Lightly crush the peppercorns, fennel and coriander seeds. Add them to a tea strainer or tie them up using a piece of cheese cloth and string or small mesh bag. 
In a large pot or dutch oven, add the ingredients for the pho broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for at least 1 hour. You can also make the pho in the crock pot/slow cooker, cook on low for 4 – 6 hours. Taste for seasoning. Strain or remove spices, ginger, lemon grass and onion. Reserve the mushrooms and carrots, once slightly cooled, slice and add back to the pot.
Cook the noodles: Cook noodles according to package directions, set aside.
Prep additional add-ins and garnishes: Gather and prep the add-ins. Serve veggies fresh when serving or add them to the pho broth and heat over medium heat for an additional 10 -15 minutes to soften a bit.
Serve: In individual bowls add noodles, veggies and broth. Top with plenty of bean sprouts, greens onions, jalapenos, cilantro & basil, add a squeeze of lime and some chili paste for heat.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Saute: In a skillet or pan, heat oil or water over medium heat. Add mushrooms, onion and garlic, add saute for 5 minutes, adding the herbs during the last minute. Let cool for a few minutes.
Food processor: If using the nuts/seeds, place in food processor first and pulse until coarsely ground, and continue. Also, if using old fashioned oats place them in the with the nuts to chop them up a bit. Add the beans, sauteed veggies, oats. Pulse until just combined (don’t overmix or it’ll turn into a paste). Taste for seasoning adding anything extra you may like. I added in some fresh chopped basil I had on hand.
Shape vegan meatballs: Roll mixture into balls, about 1 1/2 – 2 inches, and place on a baking sheet. I was able to get 10 jumbo sized bean balls. You can easily make smaller balls, yielding 16 – 20.
Cook in 1 of 2 ways:
Bake: Place balls on a baking sheet lined with parchment or silicone mat. Put in the oven on the middle rack and bake for 25 – 30 minutes at 400 degrees F. If roasting spaghetti squash, add in while the squash is cooking. Remove both when time is up and let cool.
Stovetop: In a skillet or shallow pan, heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium heat, add meatballs and cook for 15 – 20 minutes, turning often to brown all sides.
Cook sauce + meatballs: Add the pasta sauce and meatballs together, cook over low for 10 minutes, or until sauce is warmed through.
Pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions. If using spaghetti squash, see How To Cook Spaghetti Squash
Serve: In individual bowls serve spaghetti topped with sauce and vegan meatballs. Top with salt, pepper, and chopped fresh parsley or basil. A nice dusting of Almond Parmesan will also enhance this dish!
Serves 4 – 6
Store leftovers in an airtight container for up to 5 days. Leftovers were great!
Instructions
Dressing: In a small mixing bowl, add the hummus and water, mix well, set aside. If mixture is too thin, add more hummus. If mixture is too thick, add more water. Consistency should be creamy, not too thick, not too thin. Use your best judgement. If using mayo, you may consider adding 1 teaspoon garlic powder.
Mash chickpeas: In a large mixing bowl, add the chickpeas. Using the back of a fork, or potato masher, roughly mash about 3/4 of the chickpeas, leaving some whole.
Assemble: Add to the smashed chickpeas the remaining ingredients and mix well to combine.
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Use this chickpea salad in lettuce wraps, on a bed of leafy greens with sliced cucumbers and tomatoes, scoop up with crackers of vegetables, or use as an amazing sandwich filler. A few pepperoncinis on the side would be great too!
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in an airtight container.
Instructions
Start by washing the beans. Rinse the beans under cool running water using a colander. Pick out and remove any odd shaped beans (no soaking required).
Add ingredients to the instant pot. Place the red beans in the bowl of the instant pot, add the onions, bell pepper, bell pepper, garlic, oregano, cajun seasoning, bay leaves, salt, pepper and finish with the liquids.
Pressure cook the beans. Manually set the Instant Pot to HIGH pressure for 60 minutes (if using kidney beans cook 70 min), close the vent to SEAL. Once done, let the pressure cooker steam vent naturally for about 20 – 25 minutes.
Add sausage and taste for flavor. Remove the bay leaves. Add the optional sausage and parsley. Taste for flavor, adding as much salt and pepper as you like. Beans will soak up the remaining liquids as they cool. For a thicker sauce like gravy, mash some of the beans against the wall of the instant pot bowl with the back of a fork.
Cook the rice. While the beans are pressure cooking, make the rice according to package directions using at least 1 cup of rice.
Serves 4 – 6
Pairs well with this Vegan Cornbread or Jalapeno Cornbread Muffins on the side!
Store: Leftovers will keep for 5 – 6 days in the refrigerator, stored in a covered container. To keep longer, store in the freezer using freezer safe containers for 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator. Re-warm on the stovetop or the microwave.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9 x 5 loaf pan lightly with oil.
Combine: In a medium sized mixing bowl, add the flour, oats, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, optional cinnamon and pinch of salt, stir to combine.
Mash the bananas by hand in a small bowl, using the back of a fork or slotted spoon.
Mix: To the dry ingredients, add the mashed bananas, oil, plant milk and optional vanilla, mix to combine, just until the flour is incorporated. Best practice for mixing quick bread batter: Don’t overmix, as overmixing the ingredients will cause the gluten proteins to create an elastic batter that will not rise well.
Gently fold in the blueberries.
Pour the batter into a lightly greased 9 x 5 loaf pan. Optionally, add a few blueberries strategically to the top and sprinkle a small handful of oats over top. I added quick oats, but old fashioned oat would look nice too. You can also chop old fashioned oats into smaller pieces.
Bake: Place loaf pan in oven and bake for 50 – 55 minutes, rotating the pan once halfway through. Top will turn golden and toothpick placed in the center will come out clean.
Once done, let cool for 15 minutes in the pan. You should be able to tilt the pan and the loaf will come out clean, place on rack to cool completely.
Store covered on the counter for up to 3 days or in the refrigerator up to 1 week. Keep in the freezer for up to 3 months – place completely cooled loaves in freezer containers or bags. Thaw the wrapped loaves overnight in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Sauce: In a small/medium bowl, combine the sauce ingredients and mix together until blended. Set aside for 30 min to let the flavors mingle. Add extra ingredients to suit your taste.
Prep: While sauce is setting, prepare your veggies and rinse the kelp noodles. You could cut your kelp noodles into smaller pieces or leave as is (I left mine as is). 
Assemble: Place kelp noodles and other vegetables in a large bowl, pour the pad Thai sauce over top and toss until thoroughly coated.
Serve in individual bowls with a squeeze of lime and cashews over top. Enjoy to the fullest!
Serves 2 generously
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
In a large bowl, combine the lemon juice, maple syrup, salt and red pepper flakes, add the kale and shallots, mix well. If using large leaf kale, let set for at least 20 minutes (or overnight in the fridge) making sure to toss a few times. If using baby kale, serve right away as baby kale is tender ready. 
Before serving add a drizzle of the optional olive oil, toss well. Add in the dates, almonds, hemp hearts and light dusting of almond parmesan or shaved vegan parm.
Serves 4
Instructions
In large pot or stock pot, heat oil over medium heat, saute onion, garlic, and ginger until onion becomes transparent, about 5 minutes. Add spices, tomatoes, lentils, garbanzo beans and 6 cups of liquids, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for about 30 minutes. Add in the kale and optional lemon juice, continue to cook for 10 minutes or until kale softens and wilts.
Serve alone, or over white rice, brown rice or quinoa. It would pair well with this flavorful Lime Cilantro Rice. And for soaking and swiping this vegan naan bread is just what you need. Enjoy!
Serves 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Dry: Rinse and dry the chickpeas between a kitchen towel. Remove any lose skins.
Season: Place ingredients in a medium size bowl and combine well to coat. 
Layer: Arrange chickpeas in a single layer on a roasting pan or rimmed cookie sheet lined with parchment paper, silpat or lightly greased. 
Roast: Bake for about 40-45 minutes mixing them around every 10 minutes or so until chickpeas have a nice roasted look and are crispy.
Cool: Let cool for 10 minutes before serving.
Store: Keep chickpeas crunchy by storing them in a container that lets air flow through. When stored in an airtight container they will soften up and lose their crunchiness.
NOTES:
Feel free to add extra spice if you want it a little spicier!
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love and use this parchment paper and silpat (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
P.S. Don’t forget to drink plenty of water with your chickpeas. Enjoy!
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a muffin tin with parchment paper liners or lightly grease with oil.
Batter: In the bottom of a large mixing bowl, add the sugar and oil/butter, mix well. Add the vanilla and non-dairy milk, stir to combine. Lastly, add the flour, baking powder, and salt, mix until combined.
Add strawberries: Toss in the strawberries and gently fold them into the batter.
Scoop: Fill each muffin-lined hole with batter. For uniformity, fill muffin tin using a ¼ measuring cup or large ice cream scooper to scoop up the batter and pour into the muffin holes.
Topping: Optionally, add a few strategic strawberries on top and sprinkle the top with a little pure cane sugar or raw sugar. The sugar will add a nice crunch to the tops!
Bake: Place in the oven on the center rack and bake for 30 – 35 minutes. Let cool a few minutes and enjoy warm or at room temperature.
Makes 12 muffins
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a rimmed sheet pan with parchment paper, a silpat or lightly grease with oil.
Roasting: Place potatoes, carrots and chickpeas on sheet pan, drizzle with oil, sprinkle with spices and herbs of choice, and toss together to coat, either using your hands or two large spoons. Spread veggies in a single layer, sprinkle with additional seasonings if needed. Place in oven on middle rack, center of oven and bake for 40 minutes, stirring 2 – 3 times.
Dressing: In a mason jar or small bowl, add the tahini, water, lemon juice and salt, and mix well.
Chop the parsley.
Serve: Once veggies are done, let cool a few minutes and assemble your bowls.
For dressing variation, try this Creamy Lemon-Herb Hemp Dressing or Sriracha Cashew Cream Sauce!
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. Reheat on the stovetop over low, stirring occasionally until warmed through. Also, heat in the microwave for 1 – 2 minutes, stopping to stir every 30 seconds or so.
Instructions
Saute: Heat butter/oil/water over medium heat, add the celery, leek/onion, potatoes, garlic, and generous pinch of salt, saute for 8 – 10 minutes stirring frequently.
Simmer: Add the liquids, bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium low and cook at a gentle boil for 10 minutes, or until potatoes are just fork tender.
Add herbs: Remove from heat, add the dill and parsley, give a good stir. Enjoy as is or continue to next step.
Puree: Puree the soup using an immersion blender or transfer the soup to a blender and blend until creamy.
Serve warm or chilled topped with a few chopped celery leaves and parsley. Great with drizzle of Vegan Cream!
Soup pairs well with homemade Artisan Bread, Naan Bread or a slice of toasted Dave’s Killer Bread with vegan butter. For gluten free, try this chickpea flour Socca Flatbread, it’s not as bready but it’s still delicious!
Serves 4 – about 1 1/2 cups per serving.
Store: Leftovers will keep for 5 – 6 days in the refrigerator, stored covered. For longer storage, this soup can be stored in the freezer for 2 months in freezer safe containers or baggies.
Instructions
Potatoes: Cut potatoes into irregular chunks by inserting the tip of a small, sharp knife into a potato and twisting until a 1 1/2 chunk comes out. Repeat until the entire potato is cut up, than continue with the remaining potatoes, set aside. You can also just roughly chop the potatoes into 1 1/2 inch chunks. Peeling is optional.
Fried Almonds + Garlic: Heat oil in a heavy pot over medium heat, add almonds and garlic, cooking, stirring frequently until golden, 3 – 4 minutes. Transfer the almonds and garlic to a bowl to cool slightly. In a food processor, place the garlic and almonds, pulse until desired texture. I left mine fairly course. You can also simply mince them with a knife. Add all but 2 tablespoons to the soup. Season soup with salt and pepper to taste.
Saute: Add leeks and a 2 tablespoons of water to the pot and cook, stirring occasionally, until softened, about 4 minutes. 
Simmer: Add potatoes, vegetable broth and rice, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer 40 to 45 minutes.
Saffron: Remove a few tablespoons of soup from the pot and place in a small bowl, add saffron and let steep for 2 minutes, add to the soup. Add a little more water or broth if the soup seems to thick and continue to cook.
Add remaining ingredients: Add the vinegar to the reserved ground almond mixture and stir in the soup. Add the parsley and cook for a minute. Taste for seasonings, adding a little more salt and vinegar if necessary. 
Serve with dense whole grain or artisan bread or naan bread.
Store: Leftover can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. Keep longer in the freezer, up to 2 – 3 months.
NOTES:
If using almonds with the skin, just know that the skins will fall off in the soup. For me this is not an issue (I like the added fiber) but if you’re serving for company you may consider using blanched almonds.
How to make without rice: Reduce the liquids to 4 cups, adding more as needed. When soup is done, if you’d like it a little creamier, mash a few of the potato pieces with the back of a spoon.
Slow Cooker: Add the leeks, potatoes, rice and liquids to the bowl of your slow cooker. Cook on LOW for 4 – 5 hours or HIGH for 3 – 4 hours. Fry the almonds and garlic according to directions and continue with the recipe add the mixture and saffron at the end of cooking.
Recipe adapted from Food 52 Anya von Bremzen’s Potato Soup with Fried Almonds.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I have been loving this Staub braiser (affiliate link) you see in the photos, 5 stars for ease and clean up! It’s my new favorite for everyday cooking – soups, fried tofu, skillet potatoes, etc. For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials!
Instructions
Preheat griddle on medium.
Mix: In a medium size bowl, combine flour, water, baking soda, optional turmeric, cumin, garlic powder and salt to taste. Mix well ensuring all the flour lumps are gone. Add in lemon, stir and you will notice the batter rise and foam a bit. Add in veggies and combine thoroughly. (Note: I don’t really measure the vegetables, so this is an approximation)
Cook: Pour 1/2 of the mixture onto the preheated griddle or skillet. You can use your spatula to move the veggies around and flatten as needed if they are piled up in areas. Also you can help make your pancake round by gently pushing in the edges where needed. There may be times when it appears that you have more veggies than batter, don’t panic….in a few minutes the batter will puff up from the baking soda and fill in making it look fluffy and full. Let cook for 5 minutes. Flip and cook another 5 – 7 minutes, making sure the batter cooks throughout.
Serve with your choice of condiments. A thinned hummus would also be great! Pairs well with fresh fruit on the side.
Makes 2 pancakes
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container. Reheat in the toaster oven or microwave.
Instructions
Combine ingredients into a blender cup and blend until smooth, about 1 – 2 minutes, depending on your blender. Add a splash or two of extra almond milk as needed, especially if adding protein powder.
Serves 1
Instructions
Peel and slice your banana in half lengthwise. Place banana slices cut side up and layer your bananas starting with the nut butter. Next, add the remaining ingredients in any order you like. I added them in the order in the list. Enjoy the simples!
NOTES:
Add toppings in any amount you like. This is just a guide and hopefully some good inspiration!
Some optional toppings would be raisins, cranberries, finely chopped nuts such as almonds, pistachios or walnuts. A dash or light dusting of cinnamon or raw cacao powder would also be great!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Prep the Cauliflower: Place the cauliflower stem side down, and using a sharp knife cut into the top center and slice the cauliflower in half. You want to create as many cauliflower steaks as you can from the center cut out that will be at least 3/4 inch thick. The remaining sides and pieces can be cut into cauliflower nuggets and roasted alongside the steaks, or on a separate baking sheet. I feel it’s best to use two baking sheets to prepare this meal. Using two will give you plenty of room for the steak slices to be turned over without too much crowding.
Roasting: Grease your baking sheet/s and carefully place your cauliflower steaks along with the broken florets, or place the florets on a separate baking sheet. Using an small brush, gently brush the ‘steaks’ and florets with oil. Sprinkle as much seasoning as you wish to coat on ‘steaks’ and florets. Add your tomatoes to the baking sheet, you can coat these with oil too and add a sprinkle of sea salt.
Place your baking sheet into the oven, if using two, place sheets on separate racks or side by side, depending on the size. Bake for 15 minutes, gently flip ‘steaks’ and stir florets, season again and bake for an additional 15 minutes.
Serve immediately with roasted tomatoes, grain of choice, sprinkle of chopped parsley and lemon wedges.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Prep: Start by prepping the onion and garlic. Cut the quarter the tomatoes or cut into 1 inch pieces if using larger tomatoes.
Saute: In a heavy bottom pan, heat oil or water over medium heat, saute the onion for 7 minutes, add the garlic and cook 1 minute more.
Add remaining ingredients: Add the tomatoes, basil, oregano, pinch of salt and pepper, and broth.
Simmer: Bring the chunky soup to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes.
Puree: Once soup is done, let rest for 10 minutes to cool. Using an immersion blender or cup blender, puree the soup until desired consistency. Season with more salt & pepper as needed. If soup seems bland, it needs more salt. Stir in a couple tablespoons of vegan cream if you like.
Serve: Serve with a drizzle of vegan cream, basil and fresh cracked pepper. For a little heat, add a pinch of red pepper flakes. Pair with homemade Artisan Bread or soft and chewy Vegan Naan for soaking up the juices.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 days in a covered container. To store longer, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Spiced Chickpeas: In a small pan, combine the chickpeas, garlic + onion powder, cumin, paprika, tamari, and as much hot sauce to suit your taste. Warm chickpea mixture over medium heat until warmed through. Alternatively, warm the chickpeas in the microwave, using a microwave safe bowl, for 45 – 60 seconds.
Warm the tortillas: I do this carefully on the stove top over an open flame to give it some charring on the edges. Stack them on top of each other to keep them warm, you can also place them in a tortilla warmer.
Assemble: Layer each tortilla with buffalo chickpeas, avocado, cabbage, green onions, cilantro, and drizzle of vegan crema.
Serves 3, two tacos per serving
Store: Leftover chickpea mixture can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line baking sheet with a silpat, parchment paper, or leave baking sheet ungreased.
Flax egg: Start by making your flax egg. In a small bowl, place flaxseed meal and water/milk, stir and set aside to set, about 10 minutes. Or if using banana, mash well in a small bowl and set aside.
Mix: In a medium mixing bowl, combine nut butter, sugar, vanilla and flax egg/banana. Mix well until dough is stiffened and hard to mix, about 1 minute. 
Scoop + flatten: Using a tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop out rounded tablespoons, place on cookie sheet about 2 inches apart. Using a fork or your index and middle finger, gently press to flatten, making a crisscross pattern. Your dough will seem oily and stick to the fork, it’s normal with the almond butter, just be patient, you’ll be rewarded soon. Feel free to sprinkle a little sugar or salt over each cookie. 
Bake: Place baking sheet on middle rack and bake 10 – 13 minutes. Remove from oven and let cool.
Store: These cookies are best stored covered on a couple paper towels, the paper towels will help soak up some of the natural oil from the almond butter. Cookies will keep for up to 5 days. Or keep in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
Makes approx. 18 cookies (that’s if you don’t eat the batter!).
Instructions
Stovetop: In a medium sauce pan, add the oats, cinnamon and water/milk, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and simmer, uncovered, over a gentle boil for 5 – 7 minutes, stirring frequently. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Microwave: In a medium sized bowl, add oats, cinnamon, and water/milk. Microwave on full power for 3 – 4 minutes. After 3 minutes, keep an eye on the bowl, if it starts to boil over, open the microwave door to stop it. Once oatmeal has settled, continue cooking keeping an eye on it. Add 30 seconds – 1 minute more if needed. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serve with the healthy toppings, or anything else you may like, and enjoy a healthy bowl of cinnamon oatmeal.
Store leftover oatmeal in an air-tight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days or freeze in individual portions for up to 2 months.
To reheat, add a splash of water to the oatmeal and heat over low heat on the stove, or on high power in the microwave for 1 – 2 minutes.
Instructions
Grease bowl: Lightly grease the sides of the insert with oil. This will keep the mixture from sticking to the sides, but can be optional.
Slow cooker: In a 4 – 6 quart crock pot, place oats, water, milk, mashed banana, maple syrup, cinnamon, vanilla and pinch of salt, stir to mix, cover and cook on low for 3 – 5 hours, or up to 8 hours for overnight. If you can, it does help to stir 2 -3 times during cooking, but is not necessary. 
Cool down: Once done, give a good stir, and let cool a bit. Oats will thicken upon standing. Add a tad extra non-dairy milk or water as needed to create desired consistency. Adding more liquid will create a creamier consistency.
Serve: Spoon into individual serving bowls and top with any of the optional toppings of choice. Drizzle a little non-dairy milk over top if you like.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 5 – days. Can be reheated with a little milk or water on the stove top over low, or in the microwave for a minute or two.
Instructions
Potatoes: Cut potatoes into 1 inch cubes. Add potatoes to a large pot and cover with water (I added a few sprigs of thyme to the water.) Bring to a boil and simmer until potatoes are tender, about 15 minutes. Drain potatoes, add butter/oil, mash into potatoes to melt, add milk and stir until desired consistency. Add salt and freshly ground pepper to taste and set aside in a warm place.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Filling: In a shallow pot or dutch oven, warm oil/water over medium heat, add onions, carrots, celery and garlic, saute for 5 minutes. Add thyme and rosemary, cook for 1 minute more. Add the lentils, tomato paste, Worcestershire sauce and flour, mix well until flour is incorporated and no white streaks. Add the corn, peas, dijon, salt, pepper, and vegetable broth, simmer for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Taste for flavor and season with more salt and pepper to taste.
Assemble: Using the pot you cooked the vegetables or transfer to a 9 x 9 or 9 x 11 baking dish, evenly layer the mashed potato topping overtop, spreading from edge to edge. Leave as is, or make a pattern on the potatoes using the back of a fork, dragging it from edge to edge, then repeat in the other direction for a criss cross pattern.
Bake: If the baking dish seems very full, place it on a rimmed baking sheet so that the filling doesn’t bubble over into your oven. Place in the oven and bake, uncovered, for 25 – 30 minutes. Let cool for 15 minutes before serving.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in a covered container. To store longer, keep in the freezer for 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Noodles: Cook noodles according to package directions and set aside. If using the precooked or fresh noodles, simply add to the soup to warm through.
Heat soup: In a medium size pot, add water/broth and miso, gently heat over medium-low, stirring occasionally, until miso has dissolved. If using a seaweed that needs to be soaked, add it with the soup. It will add a nice flavor to the soup base. Remove the seaweed with tongs, slice and place back into the soup. Add tofu and noodles to the pot, continue to cook until warmed through.
Serve: Using tongs, place noodles in individual bowls. Ladle in the soup broth and tofu cubes. Add the shredded carrots, scallions and nori slivers (if using) over top and give a good stir. Enjoy this simple, healthy and delicious soup!
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Pasta & Asparagus: Bring a large pot of water to a boil, add pasta and cook according to package directions. Three (3) minutes before pasta is ready, carefully add cut asparagus and cook together, allowing the asparagus to blanch and brighten in color. Drain and rinse under cool running water, and set aside.
Dressing: In a small mixing bowl, whisk together the ingredients for the dressing until the dijon and oil have emulsified and become creamy.
Assemble: Add the pasta and asparagus back to the pot it was cooked in. Add the sun-dried tomatoes and red onion, and optional parsley, pour the dressing over top and toss well to coat. Add more pepper to taste.
Serve: Serve at room temperature or chilled.
Store: Keep pasta salad in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 6 days.
Make ahead 1 of 2 ways:
Cook everything as directed, omitting the dressing until ready to serve. Keep the pasta salad in the refrigerator, when ready, whip up the dressing and toss it all together just before serving.
Make the pasta salad as directed, store in the refrigerator until ready to serve. To add moisture when ready to serve, squeeze more lemon over top.
Instructions
Prep: Have all the veggies chopped, diced, and ready to go.
Saute: Heat oil in a large pot over medium-high heat and saute onions until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and ginger, saute 1 minute more. Add the corn, celery, bell pepper, and mushrooms, cook 3 – 4 minutes. 
Simmer: Pour in the coconut milk, unsweetened non-dairy milk, water, curry powder, red pepper flakes, salt & pepper to taste, and cook on medium heat for 10 minutes or until heated through. 
Add spinach + lime: Add lime juice and spinach, and cook until wilted to your liking. Test for flavors adding more spices if desired.
Serve with lime wedges and cilantro if you like.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
In a large mixing bowl, combine the chickpeas, black beans, tomatoes, onion, cucumber, garlic, mint and parsley. Add the sumac, a good drizzle of olive oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Mix well to combine.
Serve at room temperature or chilled. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
This salad is perfect in pita bread that’s been slathered with hummus and layered with arugula. Alternately, you can add a large handful of arugula to the salad and serve with pita bread and hummus on the side.
Serves 6
Notes:
Try adding a dash of cayenne pepper or red pepper flakes for a little heat.
Instructions
Cashew Ricotta: Make your cashew cheese ahead of time and keep in the fridge. If you’re in a pinch you could just as easily prepare it while the noodles are cooking.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Noodles: Cook your noodles, al dente, and set aside. 
Layer: In the bottom of an 8×11 baking dish, add 1/2 cup of pasta sauce, then 3 noodles, 1/2 of the ricotta cheese, 1/2 of the lentils, and repeat with the noodles, sauce, cheese, beans, noodles, and sauce.
Top with asparagus, coating them lightly with some extra virgin olive oil and balsamic vinegar. Top with a few twists of sea salt and cracked pepper.
Bake for 20 – 25 minutes, until asparagus is slightly tender. 
Serve with artisan bread on the side to wipe up any remaining sauce. 
Store: If you manage to have any leftovers, store in airtight container in refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. 
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Saute: Heat oil in a pan over medium heat, saute potatoes for 5 minutes, add onion and cook an additional 5 minutes. Add bell pepper, zucchini and garlic, cook until softened. Add tomatoes and optional red pepper flakes, cook another minute or two. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Tofu egg: In a food processor/blender, combine the remaining ingredients and process until smooth. Taste for seasoning.
Assemble: Add the tofu mixture to the pan the vegetables cooked in and mix well. Spoon mixture into a lightly greased 9 inch round pie/quiche dish or springform pan. Level the top flat with the back of a spatula or spoon and make sure all edges are filled. 
Bake: Place on the middle rack and bake for 35 – 45 minutes, frittata should be firm to the touch. If top starts to brown too much, cover with foil or small silpat. Remove and let cool for at least 10 minutes. If using a pie/quiche dish, loosen the edges of the frittata, place a plate over top and carefully flip so frittata falls onto the plate and serve (this step is optional).
This frittata is wonderful with sliced avocado and a little sriracha for heat.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer using freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Mash black beans: In a medium-size bowl, mash black beans with a strong fork or use a potato masher, leaving some chunks for texture if you like. 
Make patty mixture: Add oats, flour, spices, salt, and salsa, mix again, feel free to use your hands if you like to. If the mixture is too wet, add more flax meal/flour to the mix, but really it should be ok. Taste for flavor.
Shape patties: Divide the mixture and shape your patties into whatever size you like. I like to make 2 jumbo-sized burger patties, but you can make 3 – 4 smaller ones. Give a light dusting of cornmeal if you have it. It will give a nice crunch, flavor and cook up crispy.
Cook on the stovetop, oven, or grill:
Stovetop: Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet on medium. Cook for about 5 minutes on each side. It’s ok if the cornmeal gets a little crispy. Trust me, it’s delicious!
Oven (oil-free): Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment or a silicone mat. Place patties on a baking sheet, place in the oven on the center rack, and bake for 10 – 15 minutes, flip and repeat.
Serve with your choice of accompaniments such as red onion slices, leafy greens, salsa, or Vegan Mayo. Add some mashed avocado as a spread or sliced avocado if you prefer. Or serve on a bed of leafy greens. 
Makes 2 jumbo-sized patties or 3 – 4 smaller ones.
Instructions
Steep saffron: In a small bowl, add the saffron threads to 3 tablespoons warm water, let set 10 minutes to steep. If using turmeric, skip this step and add turmeric with the other spices.
Saute: Heat olive oil/broth over medium heat in a large wide flat-bottomed pan or paella pan (a dutch oven or large pot would also suffice). Add onions and bell peppers, cook until tender, about 5 minutes. Add garlic, green beans, tomatoes, smoked paprika, red pepper flakes and bay leaves, cook another 3 minutes stirring frequently. For softer veggies, cook another 7 minutes or so, totaling 10 minutes after adding the latter ingredients.
Add rice + broth: Add in the rice, broth, saffron mixture/turmeric and salt. Gently move the vegetables around so the rice falls to the bottom of the pan as much as possible. 
Boil + simmer: Bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium or medium-low and cook at a continuous gentle boil, uncovered, for 15 minutes. Do not stir the rice. If using a large paella pan (15 inches or so) you’ll want to rotate the pan over the burner every so often to help cook the rice evenly. Stay in the kitchen and clean up so you’re right there to adjust the pan when needed. If liquids seem to boil off too quickly, add a little extra warm water/broth.
Add peas and artichokes: After 15 minutes of cooking, scatter the peas and artichoke hearts on top, cook for 5 minutes more. 
Cover to steam: Turn off heat and cover for 10 minutes with a kitchen towel or other cover of choice. This will allow the rice to absorb any remaining liquid as well as steam the peas and warm the artichoke hearts and any other optional ingredients added as noted below. Once done, lightly fluff the rice and serve. Discard bay leaves before eating. Season with salt, pepper or more paprika to taste.
Serve: Garnish with chopped parsley. Pairs perfectly with a side of leafy greens and a big squeeze of lemon over top. Enjoy straight from the pan or serve in individual bowls.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Potatoes: Wash, scrub and quarter the potatoes (if using larger potatoes, cut into 1-inch cubes). In a medium-sized pot, add potatoes and cover with at least 1 inch of water. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium-low and cook at a gentle boil for 6 – 8 minutes, or until fork-tender. Drain potatoes and run under cool running water. Let cool for about 10 minutes.
Dressing: While potatoes are cooking, whisking together the dressing ingredients in a small bowl.
Herbs: While the potatoes are cooling, chop the herbs.
Assemble: Add the cooled potatoes to a medium-sized bowl, top with the herbs and dressing, mix until well coated. Season with more salt and pepper to taste.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Potato salad is best kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container for maximum freshness and will last for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Dry ingredients: Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a medium/large size bowl and set aside. 
Wet ingredients: In a small bowl, mix oil, sugar and vanilla. 
Banana: Mash bananas, you should have approx. 1 1/2 – 1 3/4 cups.
Combine: Add the wet ingredients and bananas to batter and mix until just combined. If mixture seems too dry, add a bit of non-dairy milk, maybe 1/4 – 1/2 cup at most (I’ve never had to add any).
Chocolate: Add in chocolate chips and mix briefly. 
Fill muffin tin: Spoon into a well-greased or paper-lined muffin tin, fill each muffin about 2/3 – 3/4 full. 
Bake: Place in the oven, on the center rack, and bake for about 20 – 25 minutes. You can also do the toothpick test in the center of one muffin, if it comes out clean it’s ready. 
Remove from oven and let cool for 10 min.
Makes about 12 muffins.
Store: Once completely cooled, store muffins in an airtight container lined with a paper towel on the counter for up to 3 – 4 days. The paper towel will soak up moisture and keep them from getting too moist. Or store in the refrigerator for up to a week.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot, heat oil or water over medium heat, add onion, carrots, and celery, saute for 7 minutes. Add garlic, thyme and rosemary and cook 1 minute more.
Simmer: Add the white beans, vegetable broth, tahini, and salt + pepper, give a good stir, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, cover askew, and let simmer for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add lemon: Remove from heat, add lemon juice and let cool a bit before serving. The broth will thicken upon standing. Season with more salt, pepper or herbs as desired.
Serves 4 – 6
Serve in individual bowls with fresh parsley and squeeze of lemon. Add a sprinkle of red pepper flakes for a little heat.
Pairs well with homemade Artisan Bread and side Classic House Salad.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Boil potatoes: In a large pot, add potatoes and fill pot with enough water to cover potatoes, there should be about 1 – 2 inches of water overtop. Bring to a boil, cover askew, reduce heat to low, and cook over a gentle boil for  15 – 20 minutes. Potatoes are done when fork tender. Remove from heat, carefully drain water.
Mash: Add the fat (butter/oil) right away, mash into the potatoes with a potato masher. Pour in the non-dairy milk and continue to mash until fluffy and creamy. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Process: Place all ingredients in food processor except for 1/4 cup of the pistachios, water and chocolate chips. Blend until combined, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. If mixture seems too dry, add 1 tablespoon of water at a time, as needed.
Add remaining ingredients. In a medium bowl, add the dough with remaining pistachios and chocolate chips, mixing well with a spoon or your hands.
Roll: Using a 1 tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop up rounded tablespoons of the dough and roll into balls.
Makes approx. 12 – 14 cookie balls
Roll in crushed pistachios (optional): Place 1/4 – 1/3 pistachios between a piece of folded parchment paper and crush with the bottom of a glass that has a flat surface or use a rolling pin. Roll your balls on the crushed pistachios.
Store: Store energy bites in an airtight container. They will keep in the fridge for a couple weeks and last even longer in the freezer. You can always make these ahead for special occasions.
Instructions
With strainer: Use 7 cups of water (takes 10 min to come to pressure).
Without strainer: Use 3 cups of water (takes 5 min to come to pressure).
Cooking times (recipe if for a 6qt. Instant Pot):
Pearled + Semi-pearled farro: Add farro, water and salt. Manually set to HIGH pressure for 7 minutes for al dente (great for salads) or 8 minutes for softer farro (perfect for soups). Set the valve to SEALING. After cooking, quick release right away or give 5 minutes before releasing pressure.
Whole farro: Add farro, water and salt, HIGH pressure for 10 minutes, set the valve to SEALING. Give 5 min to natural release before releasing pressure.
10 Minute Farro: Adjust water with or without the strainer and cook on LOW pressure for 1 minute, set the valve to SEAL. Let natural release for 5 min.
Drain: Once farro is done, lift the basket (or transfer the farro to a colander) and give it a good rinse under cool or warm running water.
Use in salads, casseroles, soups, nourish bowls, and more.
Serves 4
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Lined a baking sheet with parchment paper or silicone mat.
Mix: In a medium sized bowl combine the flour, oats, cinnamon, baking powder and salt. Add coconut oil, maple syrup and vanilla, blend until it comes together and forms a ball.
Roll & Flatten: Scoop 1 rounded tablespoons of the dough and shape into a ball. The dough will be moist so just do the best you can. You can also shape the mound on the cookie sheet. Using the bake of a rounded teaspoon, make an impression in the middle of each cookie. If edges crack a bit, press it together gently.
Add Jam: Add one teaspoon of fruit jam/filling into each dent.
Bake: Place in the oven, on the center rack, and bake for 10 -13 minutes, rotating the baking sheet once. Remove from oven, let cool a few minutes.
Makes 12 cookies
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Roast: Using a large rimmed baking sheets lined with parchment paper or silpat, place potatoes, fennel & onion.. Add a light drizzle of and toss vegetables until evenly coated, spread evenly on the sheet. Add a sprinkle of salt & pepper over top. Place in oven and cook for 30 – 40 minutes, tossing half way. Potatoes should be fork tender. Remove any fennel that seems to burn too fast. Reserve a few fennel pieces for garnish if you like.
Puree: In a large pot, add water/broth and milk. Add vegetables and using an immersion blender, puree until desired consistency, add more liquids as needed. You may like your soup a little chunky or smooth. You may also use a blender/food processor to puree the soup (this method may take two batches to complete). Taste for flavor adding more salt & pepper as needed.
Warm: Bring the pot to the stove and heat soup over medium low until warmed through.
Serve: Fill individual bowls and top with reserved fennel and fresh cracked pepper. Pairs well with crusty bread of choice.
Serves 4 – 6.
Instructions
Soak the cashews: Soak the cashews in hot, not boiling, water for at least five minutes. If you have digestive sensitivities to nuts, be sure to soak them in cool water for 2 – 3 hours to aid with digestion. Drain well.
Assemble dressing: Using a blender or food processor, add the soaked cashews, water, garlic, capers, dijon, lemon juice, salt and pepper, blend until smooth and creamy, about 1 minute, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. If you find it tough to blend, add a tad bit more water as needed to help it move along. Add more water to thin. Taste for flavor.
Makes about 1 cup.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 – 7 days. Give a good stir before using.
Instructions
Vinaigrette: Place ingredients into a food processor or blender, and blend until mixture is fairly smooth. Makes about 1 cup.
Salad: For the salad use a much, or as little, as you like of each vegetable.
Assemble: Fill individual bowls with leafy greens and top with the remaining produce. Drizzle with sun-dried tomato vinaigrette overtop. Finish it off with mineral salt and freshly cracked pepper to taste.
Salad serves 2 generously. Dressing serves 4.
Instructions
Stovetop: 
In large stock pot, heat water/olive oil over medium heat. Add carrots, celery and onions, saute for 5 minutes. Add the curry/tomato paste and garlic, stir to combine and cook for 3 minutes. Add the curry, cumin and red pepper, mix to combine and cook for 1 more minute. 
Add lentils, tomatoes, potatoes, then water/broth (in this order the tomatoes and potatoes won’t splash), bay leaves, salt and pepper, bring to boil over medium high heat. Turn heat to low, cover and simmer for 30 – 35 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Add the greens five minutes before the soup is done. Add additional water as needed, maybe up to 1 cup. Remove bay leaves. Season with salt & pepper.
Instant Pot: Add the ingredients, except the greens and water/oil, to the bowl of your pressure cooker. Place the lid on the Instant Pot and set the release valve to the SEALED position. Press the MANUAL button and set the timer at 10 minutes. Once finished, set valve to quick release or let it release pressure on it’s own (takes about 20 minutes). Remove lid, stir in the greens. Remove bay leaves before serving.
Slow Cooker: Add the ingredients, except the greens and water/oil, to the bowl of your crock pot. Cover with lid. Set on HIGH for 3 – 4 hours or LOW for 6 – 8 hours. Add greens, let them wilt. Remove bay leaves and enjoy!
Serve with homemade vegan naan or artisan bread. Add a squeeze of lemon juice for a touch of brightness and chopped fresh cilantro for extra flavor!
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. store covered. To keep longer, store in the freezer in freezer safe containers for 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Saute: In large pot or dutch oven, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion and saute for 5 minutes. Add garlic, sun-dried tomatoes and herbes de provence, saute 1 minute.
Simmer: Add potatoes, beans and broth, bring to a boil, cover, turn down heat to low and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes, or until potatoes are tender. Just before soup is done, about 5 minutes beforehand, add kale and continue to cook.
Season: Remove from heat, add nutritional yeast and give a good stir. Season with salt & fresh cracked pepper to taste.
Serve: Ladle into individual serving bowls and top with a light dusting of almond parmesan for extra flavor. Soup pairs well with homemade artisan bread for soaking up the juices.
Makes 4 – 6 servings
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months, let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Saute: Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat, add onion, and sauté 5 minutes. Add the garlic, saute 1 minute more.
Cook: Add collards, tomatoes, lemon juice, and salt & pepper, cook another 5 minutes. Add optional beans, and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until collards are wilted and beans are heated through. I prefer my collards al dente and cooked for about 5 extra minutes. Ending cooking time will vary depending on how soft you like your collards. Add the vegetable broth if cooking longer, or as needed.
Serve in individual bowls with a squeeze of lemon. Pair with Vegan Cornbread or Jalapeno Vegan Cornbread Muffins. 
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl whisk together the oil, vinegar, mustard, maple syrup, salt, and pepper until well combined.
Salad: In a large bowl add the greens, quinoa, strawberries, apples, grapes and nuts. Pour dressing over salad mixture and toss to combine.
Serve right away and enjoy!
Serves 3 – 4
Instructions
Press & cook tofu: If using firm or extra-firm tofu, you’ll most likely want to press it a bit to remove excess water (if using super-firm tofu you can skip this step). Place tofu between a clean, double folded kitchen towel. Place a heavy book or pot over top to use as a press. Let set for at least 10 minutes, and up to 30 minutes. Once done, slice tofu into 1 inch pieces, about 1/4 inch thick. Heat a pan over medium heat, with 2 teaspoons of oil, twirl the pan to coat with oil. Place tofu in pan and cook about 4 – 5 minutes, flip, sprinkle with a little garlic powder and cook another 4 – 5 minutes. The time given here is for super-firm tofu. If using firm or extra-firm, you’ll most likely need to cook about 4 minutes longer on each side. Tofu will be ready when golden on both sides. Set aside.
Mix dressing: In a small bowl, combine the ingredients for the dressing and mix well. Add water 1 tablespoon at a time to thin as needed. If dressing becomes to thin, add a little nut butter. Taste for flavor and set aside. Keep in mind that the flavors will mellow into each other as it sits. If using coconut amino’s, you may want to add a pinch of mineral salt. Taste again for flavor before mixing with vegetables.
Prep and cook vegetables: Once vegetables are prepped, heat wok or pan over medium-high heat. Add the bell peppers, carrots, green onions, cabbage and snow peas, cook stirring constantly for 2 minutes. We just want them to become ever so slightly softened (not too much). Add zucchini noodles and cook for 2 more minutes, stirring constantly to ensure everything cooks evenly. Remove from heat. Toss in tofu and cilantro, give a good stir. Add peanut dressing over top and mix well to coat.
Serve: Place portions in bowl and serve with lime wedges, chopped peanuts and optional bean sprouts. Easy, peasy – delicious!
Serves 2 generously or 3 smaller portions
NOTES:
If you’re a vinegar lover, feel free to add 1 tablespoon apple cider or rice wine vinegar to the dressing ingredients.
If allergic to peanuts, use sesame seeds instead (or cashews).
Instructions
In skillet or wok, heat oil over medium heat, add onions and sauté for 4 minutes. Add the tofu, crumbling it between your fingers, and cook for another 3 minutes. 
Add mushrooms, broccoli, dijon, tarragon, garlic powder, salt and pepper, cook another 5 minutes. 
Add the spinach and continue to cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally until spinach starts to wilt, about 3 – 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Season to taste, adding the optional nutritional yeast.
Serve as you like adding whatever extra spices or condiments you wish. I served mine with toast with avocado butter and fresh fruit on the side for a refreshing touch.
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Add all the ingredients to your slow cooker, except for the spinach and pasta, ending with the broth last. Give a good stir and cook:
HIGH for 4 – 5 hours
LOW for 7 – 8 hours
Add spinach during the last 30 minutes of cooking. Cook the pasta according to package directions, adding to the soup once it has finished cooking. Remove bay leaves before serving.
Serve with squeeze of lemon and parsley overtop. Pairs great with Artisan Bread!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. To freeze, place into freezer-safe container and store for up to 3 months.
Instructions
Start with your pesto by combining ingredients in food processor, process until blended and creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Set aside.
Cook pasta according to package, drain and return to pot you cooked it in. Add a small amount of oil and toss to coat.
In saute pan heat oil over medium, saute mushrooms, sun dried tomatoes and jalapeno for 4 – 5 minutes or until mushrooms are tender. It should be smelling pretty delicious about now! Remove from heat.
Toss pasta with pesto. Place pasta on individual serving dishes and top with sauteed vegetables, add salt and pepper to taste. Top with almond parmesan for even more flavor.
Serves 2 – 3
NOTES:
I didn’t use the nutritional yeast in my recipe, it’s a good healthy option for those seeking to replace the cheese flavor in other pesto recipes. Add slowly until you find the amount you like.
Use as much of the sun-dried tomatoes, mushrooms and jalapeno pepper as you like.
Use rice or quinoa pasta to make this gluten free.
Instructions
I’ll leave the amount of ingredients you want to use up to you. I would say a handful of the vegetables, and a sprinkle of the hemp hearts, salt and pepper. You really can eat about as much as you want here and I love it like that!
Wash and dry your romaine hearts. I usually use 2 leaves together for each wrap, one large and a smaller one on top. Add a layer of hummus down the middle of romaine hearts, it’s ok to spread a little out toward the edges if you like. Layer first with cucumbers, carrots and then tomatoes. Add cilantro and top with a sprinkle of hemp hearts, salt and fresh cracked pepper.
Enjoy as much or as little as you like!
Serves 2, 2 wraps per serving
Instructions
To make tofu ricotta, add crumbled tofu, miso, nutritional yeast, garlic powder, onion powder, salt, pepper and lemon to the bowl of food processor or blender and blend until creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Taste for spices adding anything you may like.
Makes about 2 cups.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator, in a covered container, for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Place the frozen fruit, banana, liquids, and chia seeds in the blender cup, attach lid, and blend to desired smoothness. Add more liquids as needed.
Makes one generous or two small servings.
Instructions
Heat up your refried beans and cut up your veggies.
Layer lavash bread with 1/3 – 1/2 of the refried beans, onion, red pepper, avocado and leafy greens. Sprinkle a little mineral salt over top, fold over and roll, slice in half and enjoy!
A little salsa on the side is perfect to add a little extra juiciness. You could also use tomato slices in place of, or in addition to, the red bell pepper for added juiciness.
Serves 2
Store: Lavash wraps can be stored in covered containers for up to 2 days.
Instructions
Prepare lentils: Rinse the lentils, remove odd pieces. In large pot add 2 1/2 cups water/broth with lentils. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer for about 35 – 40 minutes, stirring occasionally. It’s ok if they get mushy, we are going to roughly puree 3/4 of the mixture when cooled. Once done, remove lid and set aside to cool (there should only be a little bit of water so do not drain), lentils will thicken a bit upon standing, about 15 minutes is good.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Make flax egg: In small bowl combine flaxseed meal and 1/3 cup water, set aside for at least 10 minutes, preferably in the refrigerator. This will act as a binder and will thicken nicely upon sitting.
Saute vegetables & spices: In saute pan heat oil or water over medium heat. Saute garlic, onion, bell pepper, carrots and celery for about 5 minutes. Add spices mixing well to incorporate. Set aside to cool.
Mash the lentils: Using an immersion blender, food processor, back of a fork or potato masher, blend 3/4 of the lentil mixture. For me this was an important part, I tried it other ways and this worked to help as a binder. If using an immersion blender, tilt the pot slightly to the side for easier blending.
Assemble lentil loaf: Combine sauteed vegetables with the lentils, oats, oat flour and flax-egg, mix well. Taste, adding salt and pepper as needed, or any other herb or spice you might like. Place mixture into a loaf pan lined with parchment paper, leaving it overlapping for easy removal later. Press down firmly filling in along the edges too.
Glaze: Prepare your glaze by combining all ingredients in a small bowl, mix until incorporated. I recommend making each tablespoon heaping so you have plenty of this great sauce on top (if using tomato paste and mixture is too thick, add a teaspoon of water, or a little extra vinegar & syrup). Spread evenly over top the loaf.
Bake: Place in center of the oven, and bake in oven for about 45 – 50 minutes. Let cool a bit before slicing.
Serves 8
Serving suggestions: Serve with cooked asparagus, green beans, brussels sprouts, mashed potatoes, roasted red potatoes, scalloped potatoes, savory sauteed kale, baked beans, macaroni salad and/or simple salad, etc.
Instructions
Place ingredients into your blender, blend until smooth, stopping every now and then to scrape down the sides if needed. Add an extra splash of non-dairy milk or water as needed.
Serve as is in a glass with straw/spoon. Alternately, serve in a bowl making a smoothie bowl.
Either way you serve it, top with any one or more of these optional topping:
frozen/fresh berries
granola
coconut flakes
cocoa nibs
chia/hemp seeds
chopped almonds
a dollop of your favorite nut butter
Serves 1 large or 2 small smoothies
Instructions
Pick out any odd or off-colored chickpeas and discard.
Place chickpeas into the bottom of the pressure cooker insert, pour water overtop. Attach the lid, turn to lock, and move the valve to ‘SEALING’. Set the Instant Pot to BEAN or manually set to HIGH PRESSURE, and cook for 5 or 45 minutes (see below for your cooking time). Once done, let the pressure release on its own for at least 15 minutes, then move the valve to the ‘VENTING’ position to complete the process.
Unsoaked chickpeas: Cook on Bean or High for 45 minutes with 15 minute natural release. Use 5 cups of water.
Soaked chickpeas: Cook on Bean or High for 5 minutes with 15 minutes natural release. Use 4 cups of water.
Water amounts when using a basket insert. When using an Instant Pot basket insert (affiliate link), use 9 – 10 cups of water. You want to be sure to cover the chickpeas with at least 2 inches of water.
Instructions
Stovetop: In a large dutch oven or stock pot, heat your oil/water over medium heat. Add onions, garlic, spices and tempeh and cook for 5 minutes stirring frequently. Add beans, tomatoes, green chili and dark beer/water, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, partially cover and simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Chili will thicken upon cooling.
Slow Cooker: Add the ingredients to the bowl of your slow cooker, ending with the liquids. Cook on LOW for 6 – 8 hours or HIGH  for 3 – 4 hours. Chili will thicken as it cools.
Serve with optional garnish. Also, pairs perfectly with Jalapeno Cornbread Muffins or Sweet Chia Cornbread!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 – 6, kept in airtight container. To store longer, store in the freezer with freezer safe containers for 2 – 3 months.
NOTES:
Mix the beans up however you like using all of one type or your favorite combination. If you would rather use only 2 cans of beans, that’s great too! I like adding more ingredients as it makes the chili go further. If using your own cooked beans you’ll need about 4 1/2 cups.
Feel free to use 2 packages tempeh instead of just 1. At times I like the extra dose of protein the tempeh adds and will double the amount making for an extra hearty chili. It’s just so good!
For those who do not care for the taste of tempeh, I recommend making this a day ahead so the flavors really meld into the tempeh masking most of its natural flavor. Or try using the three grain tempeh as its flavor is not as strong.
If you find if you added too much heat from the chipotle, try adding a teaspoon or so of cocoa/cacao powder or organic sugar.
UPDATED: This recipe was updated in Sept. 2019 with new photos and helpful tips. The only changes made to the recipe was adding a can of sweet corn. Since so many who commented on the recipe added it, I thought I would do the same. It’s delicious, but optional!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Mix wet ingredients: In a 2 cup measuring cup, add the milk, sugar, oil, and vanilla, stir to combine a few times to help soften the large grains of sugar.
Mix dry ingredients: In a large mixing bowl, mix together the flour, baking powder and salt.
Combine wet & dry: Pour the wet mixture into the dry mixture and mix until just combined. Don’t overmix, overmixing the batter tends to make the muffins less tender.
Add blueberries: Toss in the fresh or frozen blueberries and gently fold them into the batter.
Scoop: Fill each muffin-lined hole with batter. For uniformity, fill muffin tin using a 1/4 measuring cup or large ice cream scooper to scoop up the batter and pour into the muffin holes.
Topping: Optionally, add a few strategic blueberries on top and sprinkle the top with a little pure cane sugar or raw sugar. The sugar will add a nice crunch to the tops!
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 30 minutes. Let cool a few minutes and enjoy warm or at room temperature.
Makes 12 muffins
Storing: 
Counter & Fridge: Once completely cooled, store the muffins with a paper towel underneath and overtop in a container on the counter for up to 3 – 4 days. The paper towels will soak up moisture and keep them from getting too moist, losing their delicious crunchy top. They are also fine loosely covered for 1 – 2 days. Or store in the refrigerator for up to a week.
Freezer: Once completely cooled, wrap muffins individually and store them in a freezer-safe container or baggie for up to 2 months. When ready to eat let thaw to room temperature.
Instructions
Prep the ginger by using a vegetable peeler to remove the outer skin and thinly slice with a sharp knife.
Using a small pot or kettle, add the water, ginger, lemon juice, turmeric and cayenne, give a good stir. Place over medium-low to low heat and warm until steam comes up or whistle blows on the kettle.
Let rest for 5 minutes, pour into individual cups, add a little sweetener, and enjoy.
Serves 1 – 2
Instructions
Prep corn: Remove the husks and stringy fibers from the corn cut/slice the corn off the cob. See this, 3 Mess Free Ways to get Corn of the Cobb, for a quick tutorial. Prep the bell pepper and onion.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, place the arugula, corn, bell pepper and onion. Add the lemon juice, olive oil and salt & pepper. Mix well to combine. Taste for seasoning adding more lemon juice or salt & pepper as needed.
Serve: Enjoy right away, or let the salad set for about 10 minutes (you can also chill it if you like). The arugula will soften and slightly wilt during that time making the salad look more proportioned and not so arugula heavy (it makes it a little easier to eat).
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days or so.
Instructions
Start with the dressing by combining all ingredients, except the oil, in a small bowl or decanter, mix well and then add in the olive oil. Mix again and let set.
For the salad ingredients, use as much as you like of each ingredient. Mix your greens, place on serving dish and top with cucumber, orange pieces, orange zest and flowers. Drizzle with dressing just before serving. Enjoy!
Serves 2
Instructions
In individual serving bowls, add the spinach and arrange the strawberries, avocado, red onion, almonds and coconut bacon. Drizzle the top with poppy seed dressing. Top with fresh cracked pepper and sprinkle of salt.
Serves 3
Instructions
Pasta: Cook pasta of choice according to package directions, set aside.
Cube Squash: Slice off the very top and bottom, discard. Using a vegetable peeler, remove the hard outer skin. Cut the butternut squash in half, remove seeds and cut squash into 1/2″ cubes (the smaller the cubes are the quicker they will cook).
Cook: In a large pot, heat oil over medium heat, add shallots and saute 4 minutes or until softened. Add butternut squash, garlic, and herbs, cook another 4 minutes stirring occasionally. Add broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and cook, stirring occasionally, until squash is softened, about 8 – 10 minutes. Add milk and optional beans to the pot.
Puree: Using an immersion blender or food processor/blender, blend until smooth or desired consistency (a little chunky is ok). If using a food processor or blender you may need to do it in two batches. Taste for seasoning. Add back to the pot and heat before serving if necessary.
Serve: To serve, add a little sauce to the bottom of your dish, use the back of a spoon to spread the sauce outward a bit making a circular or zig zag motion. Place pasta on top and cover with more sauce, gently toss to coat if you like (if you prefer, toss your pasta and sauce together in the pot and then serve). Top with optional toppings and fresh cracked pepper.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days, in covered containers. For longer storage, keep in the freezer stored in freezer safe containers or bags. Reheat on the stovetop over low heat until warmed through or in the microwave.
Instructions
Slow Cooker: Place ingredients, plus 1/2 extra cup of water, into the bottom of a 4 – 6 qt. slow-cooker and give a good stir. Cook on high for 3 – 4 hours, or low for 5 – 7 hours.
Stovetop: Place ingredients in a large dutch oven or pot, give a good stir, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and simmer for 1 to 1 and 1/2 hours, stirring occasionally.
Instant Pot: To the bowl of the Instant Pot, add all the ingredients and give a good stir. Close and lock the lid, turn the steam valve to SEALED. Manually set the timer, at high pressure, for 11 minutes. Let steam release naturally for 10 minutes. Carefully turn the valve to open to finish.
To serve: Serve with toppings of choice. Pairs great with Vegan Cornbread or Jalapeno Cornbread Muffins!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers will keep for up to 5 – 6 days in the refrigerator, covered in a container. To keep longer, freeze your chili using freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Potatoes: Wash and scrub the potatoes, place in a medium size pot, and fill with water, cover the potatoes with at least 1 inch of water. Bring the water and potatoes to a boil, reduce heat to medium and cook for 5 – 6 minutes, or until potatoes are just fork tender. Drain potatoes using a colander, and run potatoes under cool running water for 10 seconds or so. Set aside.
Prep: While the potatoes are cooking, prep the shallot, cucumber and dill, and make the dressing.
Potato Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the oil, apple cider vinegar, mustard, salt and pepper. Mix until the mustard emulsifies and dressing is somewhat creamy.
Assemble: In a medium mixing bowl, add the potatoes, shallots, cucumber and dill, pour the dressing overtop and toss to coat. Add more salt, pepper, or dill to taste. Add a squeeze of lemon overtop.
Serve with sliced vegan sausage or add a handful of homemade Coconut Bacon. Even a can of chickpeas, drained and rinsed would be great added to the salad for protein!
Keep leftovers in the refrigerator, in an airtight container, for up to 5 – 6 days.
Serves 3, or 6 small sides.
Instructions
Start by washing the beans. Rinse the beans under cool running water using a colander. Pick out and remove any odd shaped beans.
Add ingredients to the instant pot. Place the beans in the bowl of the instant pot, add the onions, garlic, cumin, chili powder, chili peppers (if using), bay leaves, salt, pepper and finish with the liquids.
Pressure cook the beans. Manually set the Instant Pot to HIGH pressure for 45 minutes, close the vent. Once done, let the pressure cooker steam vent naturally for 25 minutes.
Drain the beans. Let the beans cool a few minutes and drain the liquids, reserving up to 2 cups.
Mash or Puree the beans. Using a potato masher or immersion blender, mash or puree the beans to desired consistency. Add as much of the reserved liquids you need to thin. Ultimately, you may like the beans un-mashed, more ranchero or charro style.
Taste for flavor. Taste the beans, adding as much lime juice, salt and pepper as you like.
Serves 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days in a covered container. To keep longer, freeze the beans in freezer safe containers for 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the fridge overnight. Re-heat on the stove over medium low, stirring frequently.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment or silicone mat.
Prep Squash: Lay the acorn squash on it’s side, find the center and cut in half widthwise. Turn the squash half on its side again and trim off the end, creating a flat bottom. Using a sharp edge spoon or 1 tablespoon measure spoon, scrape around the inside of the squash removing the all seeds.
Roast Squash: Place the acorn squash on baking sheet cut side up. Brush with oil (or maple syrup for oil free), season with salt and pepper. Bake in the oven at 400 degrees for 30 minutes.
Quinoa: In a medium size pot, add quinoa, sage, garlic powder and water, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Once done, fluff with fork and let quinoa rest for 10 minutes.
Assemble quinoa stuffing: To the quinoa, add the chickpeas, red onion, cranberries, salt and pepper. Just before stuffing the squash, mix in the pecans.
Stuff Squash: Fill each squash half with quinoa stuffing. Top with optional chopped parsley for a little pop of color and fresh flavor. Place in the oven at 350 degrees to rewarm if needed.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up 4 – 5 days, in covered containers. To reheat, place them in the oven at 350 degrees for about 10 minutes.
Instructions
Quinoa: 
Rinse your quinoa under cool running water to remove dust (if you forego this step your quinoa may have a bitter taste).
In medium pot add quinoa, garlic powder pinch of salt and water, bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 15 min.
Once done, uncover, stir and let set for 10 minutes to cool and soak up any excess water.
Fluff before serving. It will be a perfect quinoa, fluffy and sprouted.
Tofu prep:
Open and drain tofu.
Slice tofu into 4 large slabs, or whatever size you prefer.
Press tofu between paper towels or kitchen cloth to remove excess moisture.
In a shallow dish place tofu and tamari and let set while mixing the blackening seasoning, turn after a few minutes to let the other side soak.
Blackened Seasoning:
In a flat bottomed medium size bowl, combine all spice blend ingredients and mix until blended. This is fairly spicy so you may consider using less black pepper and/or cayenne.
Place tofu pieces in spice blend, press gently to get a good coating, turn and repeat on all sides.
Cook tofu:
In saute pan, heat oil over medium-high heat, add coated tofu and cook 5 minutes on each side.
Sauteed Kale:
In large wok or saute pan heat oil over medium heat, add kale and saute for 2 minutes, stirring frequently.
Sprinkle nutritional yeast and garlic powder over top, turning and moving the kale around to get all the spices mixed well throughout the kale.
Continue stir frying for another four to 5 minutes, or until bright green and just wilted. You may leave a cover on for a minute here and there in between stir frying to help soften the kale. When kale turns bright green it’s about ready to be removed from heat. Test a piece and see if it’s too your liking, if not saute a little longer. Some may like it crisp and some may like it softer.
Serves 4
For a change, the blackened tofu would also be great with classic sides like this Vegan Macaroni Salad, Vegan Potato Salad or Vegan Cornbread.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Dipping sauces: Mix your dipping sauce together first, let set so the flavors can mingle. It will taste much different after a few minutes. Taste for flavor before serving.
Water bowl: Fill a large bowl with warm water. Depending on the size of your sheets you can use a shallow pie dish or large bowl or pot.
Wet rice paper: Dip the rice paper in the warm water for just 2 – 3 seconds, it should be stiff, and will soften as you begin to work.
Assemble: On a non-porous work surface, lay the rice paper sheet and layer the ingredients on the edge closest to you at the 1/3 mark. Start with the leafy greens, carrots, cucumber, tofu, red pepper and herbs (really any way you want to layer is fine).
Tuck & roll: After layering the ingredients, ‘tuck and roll’ the edge closest to you, by bringing the edge up and over the fresh veggie mound. Gently but firmly, tuck it under and roll away from you. At the 2/3 mark, fold the ends up onto the roll, and continue rolling tucking them under until the roll is finished.
Serve with choice of dipping sauce.
Makes 6 summer rolls, 2 rolls per serving.
Store: Leftover summer rolls can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days in a covered container and the dressing will last 5 – 6 days. To keep the rolls from sticking together, place a piece of saran wrap, wax or parchment paper between the rolls.
Instructions
In a medium-size pot/pan, add quinoa and water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer, at a gentle boil, for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover, and let set 10 – 15 minutes, fluff with a fork. Let cool almost completely before assembly.
In a large mixing bowl or pot/pan, you cooked the quinoa in, add the cherries, pistachios, shallot, mint, apple cider vinegar, salt, and pepper. Toss well to combine, adding in the optional baby arugula if desired.
Serve at room temperature or chilled.
Servers 4 – 6
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Cut Tofu: Remove tofu from the package. Turn tofu on its side and slice in thirds, creating 3 large slabs. Gently press each slab between a clean dish towel or paper towels to remove some of the excess water. Cut the slabs in half. You should have six pieces that look like large domino (rectangular) shapes.
Marinade Tofu: In a medium sized shallow dish, mix together the marinade. Place tofu in the dish and let soak for about 30 minutes – 1 hour turning carefully once or twice in between.
Saute Onions: Once the hour is almost up, caramelize your onions using 1 tablespoon oil. Heat oil over medium heat, add onions, turn down heat to medium low, stir often and cook until they start to brown and caramelize. May take 10 to 15 minutes or so. Once done, set aside.
Cook Tofu: In same skillet, heat remaining oil and cook tofu over medium high heat. Once tofu has browned, about 5 minutes, gently flip and brown the other side. It’s ok if it gets a little crispy too! If you feel it is drying out too much, add some of the juices from the bowl it marinated in for extra moisture. When done, remove from heat.
Build Sandwich: Toast your bread. Spread one side of toast with mustard and the other with a layer of mashed avocado, about 1/2 avocado. Over the avocado, layer your lettuce, tofu, onions and tomato. Top with your other slice of bread.
Serves 3
Instructions
COOK THE CUBAN BLACK BEANS
Instant Pot Method:
*No need to soak the beans.
Add all the ingredients for the cuban black beans, except the vinegar, to the bowl of the Instant Pot and give a good stir. Position lid to lock, and turn the vent valve at the top to its SEALED position.
Press the BEANS/CHILI button, and adjust the mode to NORMAL for soft, tender beans, or MORE for very soft, almost mushy beans. Alternately, press MANUAL, then HIGH PRESSURE and set timer for 30 minutes for soft beans, or 35 minutes for very soft beans. When timer goes off, let pressure release naturally for at least 25 minutes. Carefully turn vent valve to open, let remaining pressure release and remove lid.
Add the 2 tablespoons of vinegar (this step will brighten the overall flavor and I highly recommend not skipping this step). Season with salt & pepper to taste. Beans will soak up the remaining liquids as they cool. Remove bay leaves before serving.
Slow Cooker Method:
*No need to soak the beans.
Add all the ingredients for the cuban black beans, except the vinegar, to the bowl of the Instant Pot and give a good stir. Place lid on top, cook on high for 6 to 8 hours. Will be ready when beans are soft and tender throughout.
Add the 2 tablespoons of vinegar (this step will brighten the overall flavor and I highly recommend not skipping this step). Season with salt & pepper to taste. Beans will soak up the remaining liquids as they cool. Remove bay leaves before serving.
Stovetop Method:
*Soak the beans FIRST. In a large pot, use enough cool water to cover the beans by about 2 inches. Cover with a lid and let soak overnight, or at least 8 hours.
In a large pot or dutch oven, heat 1 tablespoon oil or 1/4 cup water (for water saute) over medium-high heat. Add the onion and bell peppers, saute for about 5 minutes. Next, add in garlic, jalapeno, cumin, oregano and olives, cook for 1 minute stirring, stirring frequently. (If you want to skip this step as it’s skipped in the other methods, by all means all the ingredients for the cuban black beans, except for the vinegar and cook as in the next step below.)
Add in the beans, water/broth, bay leaves, cover and bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium-low and cook 50 – 60 minutes. Beans are ready when they are soft and tender throughout.
Add the 2 tablespoons of vinegar (this step will brighten the overall flavor and I highly recommend not skipping this step). Season with salt & pepper to taste. Beans will soak up the remaining liquids as they cool. Remove bay leaves before serving.
COOK THE QUINOA
In a medium pot, place quinoa, garlic powder, salt and water. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes.
Remove from heat, uncover and let rest for 10 minutes. Fluff with fork, set aside.
Alternatively, you can cook the quinoa first using this Instant Pot Quinoa recipe.
SERVE
Serve the beans alongside the quinoa, and top with mango salsa. Add a squeeze of lime over top and add some sliced/diced avocado if you have one hand.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
In individual large bowls, add the romaine and arrange the chickpeas, tomatoes, radishes, avocado, vegan bacon, corn, and red onion over top. Drizzle with dressing, add a sprinkle of parsley, avocado, and season with salt and pepper.
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days.
Instructions
Cashew Sweet Cream: Make your cashew sweet cream, you can use right away or keep in the fridge for a few hours to thicken. Cashew cream can also be made a day or two ahead.
Crust: Make your crust by combining all the ingredients, except water, into a food processor/blender and blend until combined, and somewhat chunky. Add one tablespoon of water, and process until dough forms. Add the extra tablespoon of water if needed (you may find in your climate or altitude that you may not need it). We don’t want the dough too wet, just enough so that it combines nicely. Cover and place in the refrigerator for 20 min to stiffen.
Prep fruit: While dough is setting, prepare your fruits and set aside.
Assemble: Using molds of choice, line each with a piece of saran wrap or cut parchment paper (this will help to remove them so be sure to leave overhanging flaps). Fill each pan with a layer of dough, about 1/4 inch thick, by pressing firmly, yet gently into place. Fill each tartlet with cashew cream, almost to the rim, and level out, top with 1/3 cup of fruit. 
Remove: To remove tart from mold, gently lift the edges of saran wrap or parchment paper, place on a flat surface, and using a spatula carefully wedge under the tart and move to desired flat surface. 
Make ahead: You can prepare these a couple of hours ahead, cover them with saran wrap and store in the refrigerator until ready to eat. Makes 3 three-inch fruit tarts using the mini cake molds. Each fruit tart is about 2 servings.
Instructions
Dressing: Place ingredients into a food processor/personal blender and pulse a few times to mince carrots. Scrap down the sides. Blend again until smooth, stopping to scrap down the sides as needed. Taste for flavor adding anything extra you like. For more zestiness, add more vinegar. To thin, add water instead of extra oil, a couple tablespoons should do the trick. To thicken, add more carrots or miso paste.
Serve: Place a large handful of spinach in your serving bowl, top with quinoa, carrots, edamame, chickpeas, cranberries, pepitas and tomatoes. Add the dressing over top. Either enjoy as is or give the salad a good toss.
Serves 3
Store any leftover dressing in an air tight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Dressing can be made ahead of time.
Instructions
Pasta: In a large pot cook pasta according to package, drain in colander and set side.
Saute Veggies: In same pot, heat olive oil over medium heat, add onions and cook 4 minutes, add garlic, mushrooms and herbs, optional red pepper flakes, salt and pepper, cook over medium heat until mushrooms start to release moisture, about 4 – 5 minutes. Add kale and continue to cook until wilted (lacinato will take longer to wilt than baby kale).
Combine: Add the pasta to the mushroom mix, add broth, mix well and continue to cook until broth is just warmed.
Serve: Serve in individual bowls with some of the juices, top with fresh cracked pepper and a squeeze of lemon for brightness.
Serves 4 – 6
NOTES:
Add a few chopped sun-dried tomatoes for another layer of flavor. It’s delicious!
Use spinach in place of kale if you like.
Add extra protein to this recipe by adding a can of cannellini or great northern beans, drained and rinsed, to the pot after adding the broth.
Use any noodles you prefer, penne, farfalle, soba, udon, ramen, fettucine, etc. Use rice or quinoa pasta to make this gluten free.
Instructions
Preheat broiler. You can alternately use a toaster oven for this using a high temp.
Prep grapefruit: Slice grapefruits in half. You may have to slice a tad bit off the bottom if your grapefruits don’t stand straight. Use a grapefruit knife or a serrated paring knife and cut each segment so the pink flesh is cut away from the membrane. Next, gently par around the whole outside area of flesh cutting away from the rind. It will make your grapefruit eating a little easier and less messy.
Assemble: Place each half, cut side up, on a rimmed cookie sheet or baking dish. Top each half with 1 teaspoon or so of coconut oil, 1 teaspoon or so of sugar, and a generous pinch of ginger. Use your fingers to blend and spread the ginger on the grapefruit halves.
Broil: Place under the broiler and cook anywhere from 4 – 7 minutes. I find it best to set your timer for 2 minutes, check grapefruit, if sugar is not caramelized or there is no excessive charring of the grapefruit rind (white part), add another minute and repeat the process until sugar is caramelized and rind is gently colored but not overly burnt all around. If using shredded coconut, sprinkle on top of the grapefruit halves after the first 2 minutes. Once done, sprinkle with salt.
Serve: Enjoy right away or let cool and serve at room temp.
Instructions
Add the cashews, water, onion & garlic powder, lemon and apple cider vinegar to a high speed blender, blend until creamy smooth. Add the dill, parsley, paprika, salt and pepper, and mix by hand.
For a thinner dressing, add 1 – 2 tablespoons of water at a time until desired consistency.
Use right away or let set in the refrigerator to chill.
Makes about 1 cup.
Store leftovers in an airtight container, in the refrigerator, for up to 6 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees
Roast garlic: Remove most outer layer of skin from bulbs of garlic, leaving the most inner layer so they will stay together. Cut off the tops of the garlic bulbs. Place bulbs cut side up on a piece of tin foil large enough to fold over and close tight at the top when done. Drizzle 1 tablespoon olive oil over each bulb. Close the tin foil by folding up the edges and squeezing them together at the top and fold over, or bring up the sides and fold over while pinching and folding the ends. Bake for 45 – 50 minutes. Let cool for 10 minutes.
Miso soup: In a large pot, squeeze garlic bulbs into the pan and mush it a bit with the back of a wooden spoon. Add liquids, turn heat to medium-low. Add your miso and stir to incorporate the paste. Add in greens and let wilt until deep dark green, about 5 – 10 minutes. 
Serve with a slice of lemon, scallions and pinch of red pepper flakes. 
Serves 4
Instructions
Mushrooms: Start with the mushroom mixture by combining the mushrooms with olive oil or broth, tamari, lemon/lime juice and red pepper flakes. Allow to marinate for at least 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Soup Base: In your blender, place the water, miso, hemp hearts, cashews, and maple syrup/agave, blend until smooth. Taste for flavor, adding salt & pepper as needed. It will have some froth on top, you can either leave it or scoop it off. I scooped most of it off. Add wakame/dulse, let them absorb the soup.
Combine: Once mushrooms are ready, add the mushroom mix to the blended soup, give a good stir.
Serve as is or garnish with scallions or shallots if you like. Also, feel free to warm slightly before serving, place soup in medium/large pot over medium heat, heat until just warm.
Serves 6
Instructions
This soup can be prepared 3 different ways:
Slow Cooker: 
Place ingredients into the bottom of your crock pot, starting with the split peas and finishing with the broth. Heat on low for 7 – 8 hours or high for 4 – 5 hours. Add parsley 30 minutes before done. Let soup cool slightly and remove bay leaves. 
Using an immersion blender, carefully, as to not burn yourself, puree soup until desired consistency. You can also puree using a food/processor or blender, may take two batches. Taste for seasoning, adding salt and pepper as needed. Soup will thicken upon standing.
Stovetop: 
In a dutch oven or pot, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil or 1/4 cup water over medium-high heat, add the onion and saute for 5 minutes. Add carrots, celery, garlic, cabbage and herbs, and saute, stirring frequently, for 3 -4 minutes. Add the split peas, bay leaves, worcestershire sauce and vegetable broth. 
Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to medium-low and simmer for 2 hours, stirring occasionally. Stir in parsley 30 minutes before removing from heat. Let soup cool slightly and remove bay leaves. 
Using an immersion blender, carefully, as to not burn yourself, puree soup until desired consistency. You can also puree using a food/processor or blender, may take two batches. Taste for seasoning, adding salt and pepper as needed. Soup will thicken upon standing.
Instant Pot:
Set Instant Pot to SAUTE and add the 1 tablespoon olive oil or 1/4 cup water, onion, carrot, celery, and garlic, saute for 4 – 5 minutes (feel free to skip this step entirely).
Add split peas, cabbage, herbs de provence, bay leaves, and at least 5 cups of broth, and stir to combine.
Attach lid and turn to lock, set the valve to SEALING, and manually set to HIGH pressure for 15 minutes. Let natural release for 10 minutes. Remove bay leaves, season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir in the parsley.
Using an immersion blender, puree the soup to desired consistency. Alternatively, puree using a food processor or blender (may take 2 – 3 bathes).
Serve: Pair with your favorite artisan bread, or top with crispy roasted chickpeas or coconut bacon.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Store in mason jars or to-go containers for easy grab-n-go lunches. Freezes well for up to 2 months, just let thaw before reheating.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Open and drain tofu. No need to press the tofu.
In a large wok or skillet, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add tofu, crumbling between your fingers, cook, stirring occasionally, for about 2 -3 minutes. 
Turn heat to medium, carefully add tamari and garlic powder, give a good stir. Add kale and 2/3 – 3/4 of the scallions, cook, stirring occasionally until kale becomes soft and wilts, cover partially to help with the process, about 5 – 7 minutes. 
Lastly, add the nutritional yeast and kimchi, mix and cook just until kimchi has warmed through, about 1 minute or so. We don’t want to overcook the kimchi or it will destroy some of the health benefits of the probiotics.
If making optional tacos, heat the tortillas. I like to heat mine carefully over a gas burner until lightly charred in spots. Use your preferred method. Layer tortillas with the scramble mixture, add a few sprigs of cilantro, some of the reserved scallions, a sprinkle of sesame seeds and a squeeze of lime.
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Place ingredients in a mason jar or small bowl and whisk until combined.
Enjoy right away or store in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Makes about 3/4 cup.
Serves 3
Instructions
Pesto: Place ingredients in food processor and blend until desired consistency. Add more olive oil (or water) if desired and taste for seasoning, set aside. 
Zucchini Noodles: I use a spiralizer to get my curly noodle effect. You can also use a julienne tool or julienne them by hand creating a straight noodle.
To Serve: Combine the kale, tomatoes and noodles together in a medium size bowl and transfer to individual serving dishes. Top with a dusting of almond parmesan and enjoy!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers kale pesto can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 6 days. If storing noodles and pesto together, best eaten within 2 – 3 days.
Instructions
Pulse to combine: Simply add the walnuts, mushrooms, tamari and spices to the bowl of a food processor. Pulse a few times until just combined and crumbly. Careful not to over process or it will turn smooth like pate.
Taste for seasoning, adding more of any spice you like.
Warm it up: Optionally, heat on the stove over low heat, stirring frequently until warmed through. Alternatively, heat in the microwave using 15 second intervals, stirring between each, until warm. Just don’t overcook.
Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the apple cider vinegar, lime juice, olive oil, chili powder, cumin, garlic powder, ad generous pinch of salt. Set aside. (You can also just pour the ingredients over the assembled salad before tossing, as mentioned in the post, but mixing will help dissolve the spices.)
Prep: Drain and rinse the black eyes peas and black beans. Drain the canned corn, or if using fresh corn cut it off the cobb. Dice the red peppers, jalapeno, and onion. Chop the cilantro.
Avocado: The easiest and quickest way to dice an avocado for this recipe, is to slice it in half, remove the seed, using a knife, score the flesh in to segments, using a cross-hatch pattern, being careful to not break through the skin. Scoop it out using a large spoon, getting as close to the skin as possible, in one swoop.
Assemble: In a large bowl, add the beans, corn, bell pepper, jalapeno, onion, avocado and cilantro. Pour the dressing overtop and toss well to coat. Taste for flavor.
Eat right away, or let the salad rest in the refrigerator for a few hours to let the flavors mingle.
Leftovers will stay fresh for up to 4 – 5 days in an airtight container in the refrigerator. I don’t recommend freezing this salad/salad if adding avocado, if planning on freezing, omit the avocado and add it when serving. Freeze for up to 2 months.
Makes about 2 quarts.
Instructions
Almond dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the ingredients until creamy. Let rest a few minutes so the flavors can mingle. Taste for flavor….more tamari? more sweetener? 
Prep veggies: Next, prepare your vegetables any way you like, using as much as you like. Taste dressing once more to make sure it’s to your liking. 
Assemble romaine salad: In individual bowls, add the romaine and top with veggies however you like. Drizzle with 1/2 of the dressing overtop and enjoy. 
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Saute: In large pot heat olive oil over medium heat, saute onion for 7 minutes, or until tender and translucent. Add the garlic, jalapeno, chili and chipotle powder, cook for 1 minute, or until fragrant. 
Simmer: Add the beans, tomatoes, chocolate, and liquids, bring to boil, reduce heat, cover askew, and simmer for 15 – 20 minutes or so, stirring occasionally. Add more water as needed. Taste for flavor, season with salt and pepper, and add anything else you feel it needs.
Serve with the sliced green onions, cashew sour cream and vegan sweet chia cornbread or jalapeno cornbread muffins.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be kept, covered, in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, freeze in freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Dressing: Place ingredients in a small bowl and mix to combine. Add a tablespoon or two of water as needed to thin. Set aside.
Un-mashed Salad: Add chickpeas, grapes, pecans, and celery to a medium-sized mixing/serving bowl. Top with dressing and mix to coat. Season with mineral salt and fresh cracked pepper to taste.
Mashed Salad (perfect for sandwiches): Add chickpeas to a medium-sized mixing bowl, roughly mash 2/3 – 3/4 of the chickpeas using the back of a fork or spoon. Add in the grapes, pecans, and celery, top with dressing and mix to combine. Season with mineral salt and fresh cracked pepper to taste.
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Make sandwiches, wraps, or simply serve with leafy greens.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Pasta: Cook the pasta, al dente, according to package directions. Once cooked, rinse well under cool running water to keep the pasta from overcooking.
Assemble: In the pot the pasta was cooked in (or a large serving dish), add the pasta, olives, chickpeas, onion, red bell pepper, cucumber, tomatoes, parsley, oregano, salt, pepper, and squeeze of lemon and drizzle of oil, toss well to combine. Add vegan feta, toss again or leave as is. Taste for flavor, adding more salt, pepper, lemon or herbs.
Serves 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. 
Mix: In a medium sized or 8×8 baking dish, combine the oatmeal, cinnamon, cardamom and salt. Add in milk, syrup and vanilla, mix well. Add in persimmon, grapes and nuts, mix again. 
Bake: Place baking dish on center rack in the oven and bake for 35 – 40 minutes.
Serve: Scoop warm baked oatmeal into individual bowls and top with a splash or two of non-dairy milk. If you didn’t bake with the nuts in you may like to add a few over top before eating.
Serves 4 or 2 generously
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in a covered container for up to 4 – 5 days. 
Instructions
Paste: Place dates, water (or maple syrup), seeds of choice, optional spice and salt into the bowl of a food processor or high speed blender. Process until it becomes a paste like consistency, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed to push the ingredients down.
Mix: In a medium size mixing bowl, combine the oats, pistachios, cranberries and chocolate chips, add in the date paste and mix well. 
Roll: Using a tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop up rounded tablespoons and roll into bite size balls. This mixture is somewhat loose and will need to be packed well into ball shapes. It helps to rinse your hands after every few balls, leaving a little moisture on your hands, to remove any excess date paste (otherwise it gets to be messy and the balls don’t roll as well).
Makes about 16 – 18
Store: Keep in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 1 week. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before eating.
Instructions
Potatoes: Place potatoes in a large pot with a hefty pinch of salt and fill with water, bring to a boil, reduce heat to a gentle boil and cook about 13 – 15 minutes, until potatoes are just fork tender. Drain potatoes and let cool. Once cooled, gently peel the skin away (or leave it on if you prefer). Using your thumb and index finger, pinch the skin and you’ll see it move, skin should come off easily. Cut the potatoes into 1/2 – 3/4 inch cubes.
Prep veggies: While potatoes are cooking and/or cooling, prepare the onion, celery, dill and chickpeas.
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the tahini/mayo, mustard, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Mix well. If using tahini, add water slowly until desired consistency. If dressing is too thick, add a tad more water or lemon juice. Alternately, if dressing is too thin, add more tahini or mayo.
Mix together: In a large bowl (or pot you cooked the potatoes in) place the potatoes, chickpeas, celery, onion and dill. Pour the dressing over top and mix to combine. Season with mineral salt and fresh cracked pepper.
Serve as a light meal or side.
Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Serves 6 – 8
Instructions
In a small/medium size mason jar, or other container of choice, combine the balsamic vinegar, maple syrup, mustard, garlic and salt & pepper, mix well to emulsify the mustard. Add in the oil and mix well. Taste for flavor.
Drizzle on salads or vegetables…anything you like! Keep refrigerated and use within a week.
Makes 1 cup, serves 8
NOTES:
You can also make this without the flax oil and it will last about a month.
Always store flax seed & hemp seed oil in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly grease an 8 or 9-inch square baking pan.
Wet & Sugar: In a medium bowl (or 2 cup measuring cup), mix together the milk, lemon juice, sugar, and oil, mix well. Set aside, stirring occasionally, for 5 – 7 minutes.
Dry: In a large bowl, whisk together the cornmeal, flour, baking powder, and salt together.
Mix: Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and whisk until combined. Avoid over-mixing.
Pour & Bake: Pour batter into prepared baking dish. Place baking dish into the oven and bake for 25 minutes or until golden brown on top and the center is cooked through. Use a toothpick to test for doneness, should come out clean when stuck in the center. Once done, cool a few minutes before slicing and serving.
Serve cornbread with vegan butter, homemade chia jam, on the side with chili, soups, or stews.
Store: Wrap leftovers up tightly and store them on the counter for up to 3 – 4 days. To keep longer, freeze baked cornbread for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw overnight in the refrigerator and heat up in the microwave or bake in a 300 degrees F oven for 10 minutes.
Instructions
Mash chickpeas: Place chickpeas in a medium size bowl and roughly mash about 3/4 of the garbanzo beans with the back of a sturdy fork, potato masher or pastry blender. 
Assemble salad: Add the remaining ingredients and combine to mix. Add more vegan mayo or hummus if you like it creamier. Taste for seasoning.
Ways to serve: 
Sandwich: Using bread, layer the bottom half with leafy greens and the top half with mashed avocado. Spread the chickpea salad on the bottom half and top with the top half. Slice in half and enjoy!
Wraps: Lay a tortilla on flat surface, add a few leafy greens in the center, top with chickpea salad and roll. Alternatively, stuff pita bread with salad and leafy greens.
Salad: serve on a bed of leafy greens.
Dip: Scoop up with crackers or sliced vegetables like cucumbers, bell peppers, celery sticks, etc.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Saute: Heat butter or oil, over medium heat, add apple slices and saute for 6 minutes.
Cornstarch mix: Mix the cold water and cornstarch, set aside.
Add spices: To the apples, add the sugar, cinnamon, vanilla and water mixture, and stir to combine. Continue cooking at a gentle boil for 2 – 3 minutes, stirring occasionally, until apples are fork tender. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serve: Pair with non-dairy ice cream or serve topped on cinnamon oatmeal, waffles, french toast or pancakes. Or simply enjoy as is!
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container for up to 5 – 6 days. You can also freeze for up to 2 months.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Mix: In a large bowl combine flour, yeast and salt. Add the water, and stir until blended; dough will be shaggy and sticky. 
1st Rise: Cover bowl with plastic wrap. Let dough rest at least 12 hours, preferably about 18, at warm room temperature, about 70 degrees.
Shape: Dough is ready when its surface is dotted with bubbles. Lightly flour a work surface and place dough on it. The easy way is to tilt the bowl and use a rubber spatula to scrap down the sides, turning the dough out onto the floured surface. Sprinkle the dough with a little more flour and fold it over on itself once or twice. Using just enough flour to keep dough from sticking to work surface or to your fingers, gently and quickly shape dough into a ball. 
2nd Rise: Lightly sprinkle your parchment paper with flour, wheat bran or cornmeal, and put dough seam side down, dust lightly. Cover with a smooth cotton towel and let rise for 30 minutes – 2 hours. 
Bake: At least a 30 minutes before dough is ready, heat oven to 450 degrees. Place a 6 to 8-quart heavy covered pot (cast iron, enamel, Pyrex or ceramic) in the oven so it heats up nice and hot. When ready, carefully remove the pot, uncover, lift the edges of the parchment paper with dough and placed it straight in the pot. Cover with lid, place back in the oven and bake 30 minutes. Remove lid and bake another 15 to 30 minutes, until loaf is beautifully browned. Once done, carefully pull bread up using the edges of the parchment paper, let cook on wire rack.
Makes one 1 1/2 pound loaf
Instructions
Prep: Prep your veggies and place in medium size bowl along with salt, pepper and thyme. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil and mix to coat.
Saute: Heat the remaining olive oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add vegetables and cook for about 8 – 10 minutes stirring occasionally. Done when asparagus is just for tender and tomatoes are soft and just about to burst. 
Add optional beans: A few minutes before removing from heat, add beans and let warm through.
Serve warm on a bed of grains such as quinoa, farro, rice or barley.
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease a 9 x 5 loaf pan with oil, or line with parchment paper.
Mix dry ingredients: In a medium/large mixing bowl, combine the flour, oats, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, and salt.
Add wet ingredients: Add the applesauce, maple syrup, and milk to the dry ingredients and mix until just combined. Be careful to not overmix.
Bake: Pour batter into prepared loaf pan, optionally top with a small handful of whole or quick oats, place pan in the oven and bake for 55 minutes. Let cool before slicing.
Makes 8 – 10 slices
Store: Keep leftovers covered for 4 days. To keep longer, store in the refrigerator for 2 weeks or in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or lightly grease with oil.
Onions: Slice onions as uniform as possible and make sure all the pieces are separated. In a large mixing bowl, combine the onions, flour, panko and salt, toss to combine. Spread the onions evenly in a single layer on the baking sheet. Place the baking sheet pan in the oven on the middle rack, and bake until golden brown, approx. 30 minutes. Stir/toss the onions 2 to 3 times during cooking. After about 20 minutes, remove, and set aside, any onions that are cooking too fast. Once done, remove from the oven and set aside. Turn the oven down to 400 degrees F.
Green Beans: Fill a large pot 2/3 full with water and add a generous pinch of salt. Bring the water to a boil, add beans and blanch for 7 minutes. Drain beans into a colander and immediately plunge the beans into a large bowl of ice water to stop the cooking. Drain and set aside.
Mushroom sauce: In a large pan, heat oil over medium-high heat, add mushrooms and cook, stirring occasionally, until mushrooms begin to sweat and release their juices, approx. 4 to 5 minutes. Add the garlic and nutmeg, continue to cook for another 1 to 2 minutes. Sprinkle the flour over and cook, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Add the broth and let simmer for 1 minute. Lower the heat to medium-low and add the non-dairy milk. Cook until mixture thickens, stirring occasionally, approx. 6 to 8 minutes.  Taste for seasoning, add more salt + pepper to taste. Remove from heat.
Assemble & bake: Add the beans to the mushroom gravy and give a good stir. Place mixture in a baking dish and top with the baked onions. Place in oven, on the center rake, and bake until bubbly, approximately 15 minutes. If onions start to brown too much, cover with foil. Let cool slightly and enjoy.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept for up to 4 – 5 days in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Mushrooms: Start with the mushroom mixture by combining the mushrooms with olive oil or broth, tamari, lemon/lime juice and red pepper flakes. Allow to marinate for at least 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Soup Base: In your blender, place the water, miso, hemp hearts, cashews, and maple syrup/agave, blend until smooth. Taste for flavor, adding salt & pepper as needed. It will have some froth on top, you can either leave it or scoop it off. I scooped most of it off. Add wakame/dulse, let them absorb the soup.
Combine: Once mushrooms are ready, add the mushroom mix to the blended soup, give a good stir.
Serve as is or garnish with scallions or shallots if you like. Also, feel free to warm slightly before serving, place soup in medium/large pot over medium heat, heat until just warm.
Serves 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line baking sheet with a silpat, parchment paper or lightly grease with oil.
Roasting: Place the prepared cauliflower on one side of the baking sheet and the diced beets on the other. Sprinkle the chickpeas evenly over top both the cauliflower and beets. Add a small drizzle of olive oil over top, gently toss each vegetable with your fingers, making sure to keep them on their sides as much as possible. Sprinkle with a little garlic salt (or mineral salt and dash or two of garlic powder). Place baking sheet on the middle rack and roast for 40 minutes, stirring half way through.
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the lemon juice, vinegar, sumac and garlic. If not using sumac, add a few twists of fresh cracked pepper for a lemony-pepper dressing.
Mix together: In a large serving bowl, add the greens of choice, roasted vegetables and chickpeas, tomatoes, and parsley. Top with the dressing and give a good stir. Add salt & pepper to taste.
Serve: Serve in individual bowls with a sprinkle of pepitas and sliced avocado.
Serves 2 – 3
NOTES:
If beets are on the larger side, use 2. If on the smaller side, use 3.
Beet greens are just as delicious and nutritious as other baby greens. Chopping them up and using them in the salad is a great way to use them!
Add a grain like quinoa to make this a healthy grain bowl!
Instructions
Pasta: Cook pasta according to package directions. Drain and set aside.
Zucchini: In large pan, heat olive oil or water over medium heat and cook the garlic and zucchini together, until zucchini is pretty tender, about 8 – 10 minutes, stirring frequently so they cook uniformly.
Combine: Add the pasta, vegan ricotta, fresh herbs and lemon juice to the pan with zucchini, mix well to coat. Taste for flavor, adding more salt and pepper to taste.
Serve with lemon wedges and a good dusting of almond parmesan – it’s simply delicious!
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Prepare your vegetables. In a medium size bowl combine all ingredients and serve with a dusting of almond parmesan on top.
So simple, easy and good for you!
Instructions
The Beans: Start with the beans, I usually make these ahead if making from scratch. If you’re making them fresh, the Instant Po Black Beans will take about 60 minutes to complete. If I don’t want to use homemade, open a can of black beans and simply drain and rinse them.
The Rice: The Cilantro Lime Rice takes about 25 – 30 from start to finish so it’s a good idea to get that started after the beans, unless using canned beans than you can start with the rice.
The Veggies: The fajitas only take about 15 minutes, including prep time, to finish. These can be made while the rice is cooking.
In a large skillet, heat olive oil or water over medium heat. Add the onions, bell peppers, oregano and pinch of salt, and saute for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, until onions and peppers are soft and tender. Remove from heat.
Assemble: To assemble your burrito bowls, in individual bowls add about 3/4 cup of rice, 3/4 cup of beans, 1/4 – 1/3 cup of corn salsa or pico de gallo, and 1/4 of the fajita mixture, along with a handful of shredded lettuce. Add a side of avocado (mashed or sliced), I usually use 1/4 of an avocado per bowl. Top with a squeeze of lime, pinch of salt and a dash of red pepper flakes.
Store: All the leftover components can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days. Store individually or together (as for meal prep).
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Vegan Buttermilk: Measure the milk and the juice of 1 lemon or apple cider vinegar, let rest for 5 – 10 minutes to curdle.
Strawberries: Place the strawberries in a medium bowl with 2 teaspoons pure cane sugar and combine. Set aside for at least 20 minutes. The longer they rest, the juicer (more macerated) they will become.
Shortcakes: 
Dry ingredients: In a large mixing bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder and salt.
Cut the oil (or butter): Add the coconut oil and cut the oil into the flour using a fork or pastry blender. When done flour should be lumpy with little balls of flour.
Combine dry and wet: Pour the vegan buttermilk into the flour mixture and mix to combine. Don’t overmix the dough, mix just until combined.
Flatten dough: Once dough is formed, place it on a lightly floured flat surface. Using your hands, flatten and mold the dough into a circle shape about 1/2 inch thick (a rolling pin will work too).
Cut dough: Cut circles using a 3 inch cookie cutter (a glass is ok too). Dip the cutter in flour before each cut to keep it from sticking. Leftover dough can be reshaped and cut. You should get 12 shortcakes.
Prep for baking: Place the shortcakes on an UNGREASED baking sheet, or lined with a silpat or parchement paper. Make sure the sides are touching each other, this will make them cling to one another, rising bigger and taller.
Garnish biscuits: Brush the tops with a little almond milk and sprinkle with pure cane sugar or turbinado. The sugar will give the shortcake tops a nice crunchy texture.
Bake: Place shortcakes in the oven and bake for 15 minutes. Let cool a few minutes before assembling your strawberry shortcakes.
Assemble shortcakes: To serve, slice shortcakes in half, top with strawberries and generous dollop of vegan whipped cream.
Makes 12 strawberry shortcakes.
Store leftover biscuits, covered, on the counter for 4 days. Or keep them stored in the refrigerator for up to 7 – 10 days. You can also freeze them for up to 2 months (let thaw on the counter or in the fridge). Warm them back up in a toaster oven.
NOTES:
Types of flours: My favorite is unbleached all-purpose when making shortcakes. It yields the most tender and fluffiest biscuits. You could also try half all-purpose and half whole grain, just don’t skimp on the oil or butter.
Tips for cutting biscuits:
To keep the dough from sticking to the cutter, keep a small bowl or plate of flour nearby and dip the cutter into the flour, shaking any loose flour away, before making cuts.
Don’t twist the cutter when making cuts, it creates a seal and the biscuits won’t rise as well.
Recipe adapted from Sally’s Baking Addiction
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love my Silpat or these parchment liners for lining the baking sheet, and these fluted cookie cutters and pastry blender (affiliate links) work great too! For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Nutrition information is calculated with 1 can (14oz) coconut cream for the whipped topping.
Instructions
Dressing: Make the dressing, set aside on the counter or refrigerate. You can also make the dressing a day or two in advance so it’s ready to go anytime.
Salad: Prep the ingredients. In individual serving bowls, add the romaine, top with black beans, corn, tomatoes, mini peppers, cilantro, and avocado. Drizzle with dressing. Top with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve: Salad would be great with a sprinkle crumbled tortilla chips or pepita’s (pumpkin seeds) for added crunch and texture. Add the juice of one lime over top if you like.
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in a covered container.
Instructions
In a small bowl, mix your dressing and set aside.
Prepare vegetables and place in large bowl, add dressing and toss to coat. Add in seeds and toss again (or sprinkle over each portion before serving). Let salad rest a few minutes before eating, this will help soften the kale a bit.
Serves 2 or one generously.
NOTES:
For a creamier dressing, replace the oil with tahini.
If you have fresh lemons on hand, this would be great with a big squeeze of lemon over top.
If serving for one, use 1 – 1 1/2 tablespoons each of the seeds.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet lined with parchment paper or lightly grease the pan when tossing the brussels sprouts (the latter will caramelize best, but make for more cleanup).
Trim ends and cut in half: Trim the very end of the sprouts to remove any unsightly dry and/or dark colored ends and leaves. Slice in half lengthwise (top to end). If on the larger side you can quarter them, but results are best (imo) if they are cut in half to hold in the moisture.
Oil and season: Place brussels sprouts in the center of a rimmed baking sheet and drizzle with oil, generous pinch of salt and few twists of fresh cracked pepper, toss with your hands to coat.
Arrange in single layer, cut side down: Place the brussels sprouts cut side and evenly spread them in a single layer on the baking sheet with a little space in between each for air flow.
Roast: Place baking sheet on the center rack and roast for 25 – 30 minutes.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Roast Veggies: Combine cauliflower, sweet potato, brussels sprouts and onion in a large mixing bowl, drizzle with olive oil and mix well to coat. Transfer veggies to a large baking sheet lined with a silpat, parchment paper or lightly greased. Add a sprinkle of salt over top. Place in oven on the middle rack and roast for 40 – 45 minutes, stirring once half way through cooking. Veggies are ready when fork tender.
Cook Grain: While veggies are roasting cook your grain of choice. Drain and rinse your beans of choice, set aside.
Chimichurri: Prepare the chimichurri sauce by combining the parsley, garlic, red pepper flakes, oregano, salt, olive oil, vinegar and lemon into a food processor, blend until parsley is chopped well, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Sauce should be somewhat chunky but feel free to blend until desired smoothness.
Serve: Fill your serving bowl with 1/3 of the roasted veggies and beans. Add about 1/2 cup of grain of choice. Add a few slices of avocado and top with chimichurri sauce. A sprinkle of pepitas (pumpkin seeds) or sunflower seeds would be great too. Mix together and enjoy this zesty and delicious combination!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Tofu: Place the tofu on its side and cut into 3 slabs. Turn the tofu on the flat side and cut into four squares, creating a total of 12 slices of tofu. Pat dry with a clean dishtowel.
Heat griddle: Place the grill/griddle over the front and back burner. Heat the grill over medium – medium-high heat. Using a silicone brush, coat the entire surface well with sesame oil.
Mix marinade: In a small bowl, mix the tamari/soy sauce, rice wine vinegar, and pure maple syrup, set aside.
Grill tofu & asparagus: Dip the tofu into the sauce and add tofu squares to half of the grill and the asparagus to the other (I put the tofu towards the front and the asparagus to the back). Cook 4 – 5 minutes. Spoon a little bit of the marinade over the top of the tofu. Add a little over the asparagus as well. Carefully flip the tofu and cook another 5 minutes, until golden brown on both sides. Rotate the asparagus as needed to cook evenly. Once complete, turn off the heat. Add a few slices of lemon to the grill to give it a grilled look. It warms the lemon and makes the juices taste delicious!
Cook cauliflower: Heat a large pan or skillet over medium, add cauliflower, minced ginger, garlic powder, and a pinch of mineral salt. Mix and stir frequently until just tender, about 5 minutes.
Assemble: Serve with a little squeezed lemon, an extra drizzle of sauce, and a few extra toasted sesame seeds over the top. Enjoy!
Serves 3
Instructions
Saute: In a heavy bottom pot or dutch oven, heat  olive oil over medium heat, add onions, garlic and bell peppers, saute for 3 – 4 minutes. Add tomatoes, mix well and cook 5 minutes. 
Simmer (1): Add in eggplant, zucchini, herbs, spices, and season with salt and pepper. Reduce heat to a low and simmer uncovered for 15 minutes. 
Simmer (2): Add in chickpeas, cover askew, and simmer anywhere from 45 minutes to 1 hour, depending on your personal preference (less time for firmer vegetables, more time for softer vegetables and more juices). Stir occasionally until ready.
Serve topped with chopped fresh herbs. Pair it with a gluten-free or favorite artisan loaf of bread. I have it here with a wonderful olive loaf. Try serving it on a bed of quinoa, farro, rice or pasta to make it go further.
Serve warm, cold or at room temperature. Enjoy!
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Cantaloupe: Slice your cantaloupe in half (doesn’t matter if you slice it horizontally or vertically). Scoop out the seeds with a large spoon and discard. Slice your cantaloupe halves into 5 or 6 slices. Using a sharp knife, cut from one end of the slice to the other as close as you can to the rind, slowly and carefully cutting the orange flesh away from the peel. Slice into bite size pieces.
Cucumber: Slice off each end and using a vegetable peeler remove the outer skin (leave skin on for extra nutritional value and fiber). Slice the cucumber into 1/8 – 1/4 inch slices.
Bell Pepper: Wash and core your bell pepper. Slice into 1/4 – 1/8 inch slices. Cut the slices in half.
Onion: Slice the onion in half lengthwise. Cut off both ends of one of the halves and remove the outer layer. Place the sliced onion, end cut down and slice into 1/8 – 1/4 inch slices. If onion slices seem too long for you, cut them in half.
Assemble salad: Place ingredients in a large bowl. Add apple cider vinegar, salt and pepper and mix well to coat. Cover and set in the refrigerator for an hour or so to chill and marinate, mix occasionally if you like.
Serve: Salad can be served chilled or at room temperature.
Store:  Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 5 – 6 days.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Start by rinsing the beans. Add the beans to a colander and rinse them under cool running water. Remove any unsightly, odd shaped beans.
Add ingredients to the slow cooker. Place the beans in the bowl of the slow cooker, add the onions, garlic, cumin, chili powder, jalapeno, bay leaves, salt, pepper and liquids.
Slow cook the beans. Set the slow cooker on HIGH for 8 – 10 hours.
Drain the beans. Let the beans cool a few minutes and drain the liquids, reserving up to 2 cups. Remove the bay leaves.
Mash or Puree the beans. Using a potato masher or immersion blender, mash or puree the beans to desired consistency. Add as much of the reserved liquids you need to thin. Alternately, you may like the beans left un-mashed for a ranchero or charro style beans.
Taste for flavor. Taste for flavor, adding more salt and pepper to taste.
Serves 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days in a covered container. To keep longer, freeze the beans in freezer safe containers for 2 – 3 months. Let frozen beans thaw in the fridge overnight. Re-heat on the stove over medium low, stirring frequently.
Instructions
Black rice: Rinse rice well under cool running water using a fine mesh sieve. In a small saucepan, bring rice and water to a boil, cover, reduce heat to simmer and cook for 25 minutes without disturbing. When done, remove lid and let rest about 10 minutes, fluff with fork. Please check your package for cooking directions just in case, this was mine.
Dynamite sauce: In a small bowl, mix all the dressing ingredients together, cover and set aside. Add more water to thin your dressing, add more tahini to make it thicker.
Assemble sushi bowl: To serve, add 1/3 of the rice into your serving dish and arrange the prepared vegetables over top or to the side. Drizzle with dynamite sauce and add a sprinkle of sesame seeds. Enjoy your deconstructed sushi bowl in all its creamy gloriousness!
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment or silicone mat, or lightly grease with coconut oil.
Combine all dry ingredients in a medium size bowl. Add maple syrup, sunbutter/tahini and vanilla. Mix until well coated.
Spread granola, in a single layer, on baking sheet. 
Place in oven and bake for 30- 35 minutes, stirring the mixture every 10 minutes to ensure even cooking. If using two baking sheets, you may even like to switch their positions in the oven once after stirring. If using a smaller baking dish such as a 9 × 9 or 11 × 13, bake for up to 1 hour or so, or until golden throughout. Be sure to stir the mixture every 15 minutes or so.
Once done, remove from oven and let cool, granola will harden as it cools.
Makes 4 cups.
Store in a covered container on the counter for up to 1 month. 
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a muffin pan with liners or spray with nonstick spray.
Vegan buttermilk: In a 2 cup measuring cup, add the milk and lemon juice/apple cider vinegar, let rest for 5 – 7 minutes to curdle and make vegan buttermilk.
Dry Ingredients: In a large bowl, mix together the cornmeal, flour, baking powder, and salt. Set aside.
Wet ingredients: To the vegan buttermilk, add the oil and coconut sugar, mix until combined.
Combine: Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and whisk until combined. Fold in the peppers. Avoid overmixing.
Bake: Spoon batter into muffin tin holes, filling about 3/4 full. Place in the oven and bake for 20 minutes. Use a toothpick to test for doneness. If it comes out clean, the muffins are done. Let muffins cool a few minutes before removing them.
Makes 12 muffins
Store: Keep leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature or in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. To store longer, keep them individually wrapped in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Reheat in the microwave.
NOTES:
*Use your favorite neutral oil, even coconut oil in it’s melted state would be delicious. Vegan butter would work well too (I recommend Miyoko’s).
Optional add-ins: Not feeling the jalapeno, instead try 1 cup corn (fresh, canned or frozen), 1 cup fresh or frozen blueberries, 1 cup dried cranberries, 1 cup shredded vegan cheddar cheese, or 1/2 cup crumbled coconut bacon. Feel free to mix and match using your best judgement. Add in after mixing the batter.
Skillet Cornbread: Baking cornbread in a skillet gives it an even heartier, crunchy crust. Bake this cornbread in a 9-inch or 10-inch oven safe greased skillet at the same temperature for the same amount of time.
Instructions
Tofu: If using non-high protein tofu, start by pressing your tofu (if using high protein tofu as mentioned above there is no need to press). Place your block of tofu either between a few sheets/or folded paper towel OR between a clean folded dish cloth. Gently press around the entire block, add sides, with the towel to remove excess moisture.
Marinate tofu: Cut the tofu into 3/4 inch cubes. Add to a medium bowl and drizzle with 1 – 2 tablespoon of tamari, gently toss to coat. Let tofu marinate while prepping the veggies.
Prep veggies: Slice the onion lengthwise into strips about 1/4 to 1/2 inch thick. Cut to top off of the bell peppers, remove the core and seeds, slice lengthwise the same as the onions. Mince the garlic. Slice the mushrooms (or better yet buy them already sliced).
Mix sauce: In a small bowl, combine the tamari, maple syrup, cornstarch and red pepper flakes. Add 2 tablespoons of water. Set aside.
Sear tofu: In a large skillet or wok, heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium heat, add tofu and cook for 2 minutes without touching, flip and cook another 2 – 3 minutes. Transfer tofu a plate.
Basil stir fry: In same large skillet or wok, add onions, garlic, bell peppers and mushrooms. Stir fry for 5 minutes. Add in the wet mixture and toss to coat. Add in basil and tofu, mix well and cook another 5 minutes, or until vegetables are just softened, tofu is warmed and sauce has thickened. Add more tamari and pepper flakes to taste.
Serve: Pair with 1/2 cup grain of choice (white or brown rice, or quinoa) with a sprinkle of black sesame seeds on top.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, a silpat, or lightly grease with oil.
Prep veggies: Cut ends off butternut squash, and peel (a vegetable peeler works great). Slice butternut squash in half lengthwise, scoop out seeds, and dice into 1/2 inch cubes. Trim the bottom of the brussels sprouts and slice them in half lengthwise. If brussels sprouts are on the larger side, quarter them instead.
Roast: Place the brussels sprouts and squash on the baking sheet, drizzle with a little oil, and toss to coat. Arrange the vegetables in a single layer, making sure the brussels sprouts are cut side down to help caramelize them. Sprinkle with salt. Place the baking sheet in the oven and roast for 40 minutes, stirring after 25 minutes. About 5 minutes before removing the vegetables, add the cranberries and pecans to the baking sheet. Remove and let cool slightly.
Dressing: In a small bowl, squeeze the juice from 1/2 orange and add a generous dash of cinnamon, mix well.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, add the roasted vegetables along with the orange-cinnamon dressing. Add salt and freshly cracked pepper to taste. The cinnamon is subtle here, add more as desired.
Transfer to serving dish. Enjoy warm, at room temp or chilled.
Serves 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days.
Instructions
Make your vegan ricotta cheese and keep in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Cook pasta: Bring a large pot of water to a boil and cook cannelloni shells, about eight minutes. Rinse in cool water.
Prep dish: In approx. a 9 x 13 inch baking dish, pour about 3/4 cup pasta sauce onto the bottom.
Fill shells: Place ricotta in a large size zip lock bag, let all the air out and seal. Cut a small hole on one bottom corner about 1/4 inch wide (or use a pastry bag as in the notes). Squeeze ricotta cheese into each tube. Place in baking dish and cover with remaining sauce, add more sauce if desired.
Bake: Cover with foil or silicone mat and bake for 30 minutes.
Serve with a sprinkle of freshly chopped basil for a bit of color. Also great with Almond Parmesan and homemade Artisan Bread.
Serves 5 – 6, 2 shells per serving
Instructions
Mix: Place ingredients in bowl of a food processor and process until it just becomes combined. Ideally you want your dough to have visible pieces of nuts (but you can also process until smoother, see notes). If it seems too dry, add 1 – 2 tablespoons of water while blending. It should stick together when you pinch it. 
Roll: Using a 1 tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop out rounded tablespoons and roll dough into 1 inch balls. 
Finishing coat: Roll in any one or mix of the optional ingredients if for a finished look. 
Store: Keep in the refrigerator for up to 2 – 3 weeks (may even last longer). Freeze for up to 2 – 3 months, let thaw before serving.
Makes about 12 energy balls
Instructions
Pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions for al dente. Rinse the pasta under cool running water until cooled.
Prep: Ideally you will have the caesar dressing and chickpeas already prepared, so all you need to do is chop the romaine and slice the tomatoes.
Assemble the salad: In a large serving bowl (or pot the pasta was cooked in) add the pasta, romaine, capers, and tomatoes. Pour the caesar dressing over top and toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve: Serve in individual bowls topped with Crispy Chickpeas, vegan parm, and any other optional toppings.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in covered containers.
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment, a silpat, or lightly grease with oil.
Mix: In a medium size mixing bowl, combine the oats, applesauce, cinnamon, mix well to combine. Prepare the apple, letting the mixture set a few minutes. Add the apple and mix again.
Scoop: Using a tablespoon measurer, scoop out well-rounded mounds of the mixture, making sure to gently pack it with your fingers, place on cookie sheet. If these aren’t packed well enough they may have a tendency to fall apart. Sprinkle the top of each cookie with sugar, this last step is optional.
Bake: Place cookie sheet in the oven, on middle rack, and bake for 17 – 20 minutes.
Let cool a few minutes and enjoy!
Makes about 16 – 18 cookies.
Store: Keep leftover cookies, covered, on the counter for 3 – 4 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Line a 9×9 baking pan with parchment paper.
In a large mixing bowl, combine all the ingredients starting with nuts & seeds, spices and lastly maple syrup. Mix well to coat. Fill lined baking pan with wet mixture and flatten, pressing firmly, making sure to reach all edges and corners as best you can. Place in oven on middle rack and bake for 25 – 30 minutes. Once done, let cool to harden. 
Once cooled it will be a solid piece. Slice in half, then cut each half into 1 – 1 1/2 inch bars. Store loosely covered and enjoy often!
NOTES:
If you don’t have hemp seeds, use any color sesame seeds you like.
Instructions
Prep veggies: Trim both ends off the leeks, we’ll be using the white and light green parts only. Make a slit down the center lengthwise and run under cool water to remove any debris/dirt that may have collected between the layers. Lay on a flat surface, thinly slice widthwise. Here is a great guide to prepping leeks. Trim asparagus ends and discard. Cut remaining asparagus into 1-inch pieces.
Cook: In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat. Add leeks and saute for about 5 minutes, or until softened. Add in tarragon, lentils, asparagus, vegetable broth, and salt & pepper. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 – 20 minutes. Let cool a bit. 
Puree: Using an immersion blender, puree soup until desired consistency (I left mine a little chunky). You can also puree using a blender or food processor (this method will most likely require you to puree in 2 batches). Once pureed, add back to the stove and add juice of 1 lemon, give a good stir. Add more water as needed to thin, no more than 1 cup should be needed. Taste for seasoning and heat on low as needed to warm.
Croutons: While the soup is cooking or cooling, cube two slices of your favorite bread (I used the end pieces). Place cubes on a small baking sheet and drizzle with olive oil, add a pinch of salt, and toss well to coat. Toast in a toaster oven as if toasting bread (this was my method using the small tray that came with the toaster oven). Alternately, use the broiler in your oven and set it at medium, place the baking sheet under the broiler for 5 – 7 minutes, tossing once or twice, until bread is toasted and slightly golden. Simple and easy croutons!
Serve: Serve soup in individual bowls topped with croutons and fresh cracked pepper. For a little heat, add a sprinkle of red pepper flakes. For more herby flavor, stir in a small handful of fresh chopped parsley. For soaking up the juices, a slice of homemade Artisan Bread is perfect!
Serves 4
Instructions
In a blender, combine the base pudding ingredients (along with any one of the optional flavor combinations) and blend until creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Add water, a few tablespoons at a time, as needed for desired consistency. Typically I use 1/2 cup of water, unless making the orange flavored. Taste for flavor and adjust accordingly.
Pudding can be served at room temp, but I find it’s best when chilled in the refrigerator for a couple hours.
Serve: Top with a dollop of whipped coconut cream and shaved dark chocolate, cacao nibs or carob chips.
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. To freeze, store in popsicle molds for best results, can be kept in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Place all ingredients into a small blender (I used a magic bullet for this job). Blend until creamy, taste for flavor adding extra chili sauce if needed. 
Thin with water to desired consistency using one tablespoon at a time. If you find it’s too watery add a few cashews and blend again until smooth. 
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 6 days.
Makes about 2/3 cups.
NOTES:
Quick soak your cashews: To soak your cashew fast, simply place them in hot water for 5 minutes, drain and use accordingly.
I also didn’t add in any salt but feel free to add salt to taste. 
Lastly, I usually use 1 tablespoon of lemon juice in my cashew creams but didn’t add any in this recipe, I didn’t feel it needed either. You may try adding 1 tablespoon if you have it on hand for another layer of flavor.
Serve however you like! I hope you find many uses for this sauce. I have many in mind and will be sharing within the recipes as they come up.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love my NutriBullet (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Edit: I’ve updated the ingredients, making it double of what it originally was so it can be made in a larger blender or food processor. Plus you may have a little extra leftover for another use!
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 275 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone mat.
Dry ingredients: In a large bowl, mix the oats, almonds, pepitas, cinnamon, and salt.
Wet ingredients: Warm your coconut oil and maple syrup, combined with vanilla extract. Mash your bananas and measure your nut butter.
Mix wet & dry: Combine the wet ingredients with the oat mixture. Toss and mix to coat well.
Layer: Spread mixture evenly on a lined or lightly greased baking sheet (I used two baking sheets). You can either lightly compact the mixture or loosely spread it out a bit. If compacting, you’ll want to mix the granola when rotating after 30 minutes.
Bake: Bake for 30 minutes. Turn and rotate sheet/sheets, bake for an additional 25 – 30 minutes. Keep an eye towards the end, so it doesn’t over brown (ovens run differently), cover with foil if it starts to brown too much.
Let cool: Remove from oven, granola will be somewhat soft at first. Let cool for 15 minutes, break up into chunks, especially the center part if you’ve compacted the mixture. Let granola cool completely to harden.
Makes about 6 cups.
Store: Let cool completely before storing. Keep granola in covered containers on the counter for up to 2 weeks or in the refrigerator for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with silpat or parchment paper, or lightly grease with oil.
In a mixing bowl, combine the flour, cream of tarter, baking soda and salt. Set aside.
In a medium sized mixing bowl, using a spoon, mix together the sugar and butter until creamy, about 2  minutes. This can also be done with a stand alone mixer or hand blender (I usually just use a bowl and spoon). Then add the vanilla and applesauce, mix to combine. Add flour mixture and stir just until flour is incorporated. Dough should be firm and thick. If the dough is too soft, chill it in the refrigerator for 15 minutes to 1 hour until it stiffens a bit. This will help keep them from spreading too much.
In a small bowl, combine the sugar and cinnamon for rolling. Roll dough into about 1 inch balls. To keep them uniform, use either a 1 tablespoon measuring spoon or 1 tablespoon scooper.
Place cinnamon sugar rolled balls on prepared baking sheet, leaving about 2 inches between balls. Bake in center of the oven for 8 – 9 minutes. For a little crispier cookie, bake for 10 minutes.
Let cool for a few minutes on the pan, they may be too soft just from the oven to move to a wire rack. Once cooled, enjoy!
Makes about 28 cookies
Store cookies covered on the counter for up to 3 days. Keep them fresher longer by storing them in the refrigerator for up 10 days. Freeze leftovers for up to 2 months (let thaw before eating).
Instructions
In a small bowl, combine oats, buckwheat groats, chia seeds, vanilla, milk, cinnamon, and half of the apple and raisins. Mix well, cover, and refrigerate overnight, or eat in one to two hours after it has set.
Serve cold, or at room temp, topped with diced figs, remaining apple, raisins, and nuts/seeds, and a sprinkle of cinnamon, and top with a little more milk if desired. 
Serves 1
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
Instructions
Preheat griddle on medium.
Mix: In a medium size bowl, combine flour, water, baking soda, optional turmeric, cumin, garlic powder and salt to taste. Mix well ensuring all the flour lumps are gone. Add in lemon, stir and you will notice the batter rise and foam a bit. Add in veggies and combine thoroughly. (Note: I don’t really measure the vegetables, so this is an approximation)
Cook: Pour 1/2 of the mixture onto the preheated griddle or skillet. You can use your spatula to move the veggies around and flatten as needed if they are piled up in areas. Also you can help make your pancake round by gently pushing in the edges where needed. There may be times when it appears that you have more veggies than batter, don’t panic….in a few minutes the batter will puff up from the baking soda and fill in making it look fluffy and full. Let cook for 5 minutes. Flip and cook another 5 – 7 minutes, making sure the batter cooks throughout.
Serve with your choice of condiments. A thinned hummus would also be great! Pairs well with fresh fruit on the side.
Makes 2 pancakes
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container. Reheat in the toaster oven or microwave.
Instructions
Orange-Ginger Dressing: Place all ingredients into food processor/blender and process until creamy. For a thinner dressing add 1 tablespoon water at a time until desired consistency. Taste for flavor, add the other half of the garlic clove if needed. Makes about 3/4 cup. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Salad: Peel the oranges, and slice width wise into 1/4 inch slices, or simply break them up into wedges. Serve individual salads with 1/3 of the leafy greens, 1/3 cup of cooked quinoa, 1 tablespoons pomegranate seeds, 1 teaspoon red onion, slices of 1 tangerine and chopped mint. Add a helping of dressing over top, mix together and enjoy!
Instructions
In a small/medium saucepan, heat milk and orange juice over medium-low heat. Add cocoa, sugar, cinnamon, ginger and pinch of salt, stir until cocoa is completely dissolved. Turn heat to low to keep cocoa warm until ready to serve.
Serve in individual cups topped with any garnish you like. I added coconut cream, dusted with cocoa powder and topped with orange zest.
Serves 2 – 3
NOTES:
Feel free to use water in place of non-dairy milk or use a combo of water & milk equally 3 cups.
For the orange juice, use fresh squeezed or bottled (no pulp to medium pulp pref). If using fresh squeezed, you may like to strain the pulp before using.
Make your 1/4 cup of cocoa heaping if you like a little extra chocolate flavor.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (232 C). Line a sheet pan with parchment, a silpat, or lightly grease with oil.
Prep: Scrub potatoes well, slice in half and cut into quarters (if using baby potatoes you may rather just cut them in half).
Season: Place potatoes on sheet pan, drizzle with oil, herbs and spices, toss well to coat and spread in a single layer.
Roast: Place baking sheet in the oven, on middle rack, and roast for 40 – 45 minutes, stirring 2 – 3 times.
Remove from oven, let cool a few minutes and serve warm with chopped parsley sprinkled overtop.
Serves 6 – 8
Pair these roasted red potatoes with this The Ultimate Vegetable Lentil Loaf, or serve as a mono meal or side drizzled with this Garlic Aioli, Sriracha Cashew Sauce or Creamy Lemon- Herb Hemp Dressing!
Instructions
In a small container, mix the oats, optional flaxseed meal or chia seeds, and plant milk of choice. If adding yogurt and sweetener, you can add it here or add it when serving.
Cover and place in the refrigerator overnight or for at least 6 hours.
When ready to eat, top with optional toppings, sweeteners, and extra non-dairy milk.
The recipe serves 1 and can easily be doubled, tripled, or quadrupled!
Store: Keep in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Drain tofu. Drain the tofu and lay it on its side for a few minutes to let the water drain (above left).
Marinade. In a medium size shallow dish, whisk together the tamari, rice wine vinegar, maple syrup, sesame oil, garlic, ginger, red pepper flakes.
Cube and marinate the tofu. Cut the tofu into 1/2 inch cubes (it doesn’t have to be perfect!). Add the tofu to the marinade and let set for 20 minutes, turning at least once halfway through. The tofu is meant to be served at room temp straight from the marinade. Feel free to warm it up by adding it to the pan while stir frying the veggies.
Noodles. While tofu is marinating, make the soba noodles according to package directions. Rinse well under cool running water to cool the noodles and stop them continuing to cook.
Veggies. Heat sesame oil over medium heat, add the broccoli and carrots, stir fry for 3 minutes. Add a large spoon of marinade, basil and mint, cook another 1 – 2 minutes. I prefer my vegetables to be al dente and will remove from heat as soon as they brighten in color (feel free to cook a little longer if you wish). Also, you can add the tofu, marinade and noodles to the pan, tossing well, to warm through.
Assemble. Serve soba noodle in individual dishes topped with veggies and tofu, and top with remaining marinade, scallions, sesame seeds and additional fresh herbs.
This can be served warm or cooled. I ate this after taking the photos, it was on the cool side but still absolutely delicious!
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Crispy tofu: Cut the tofu into dominoes and press between paper towels or dish cloth. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a pan, add tofu and cook for 5 – 8 minutes on each side, until lightly golden in color. Season with salt and garlic powder (or garlic salt). Transfer tofu to a small plate.
Stir fry: Heat 14 inch wok or large skillet over medium- high heat, add 1 remaining tablespoon of oil, add garlic, ginger and red pepper flakes and cook for 1 minute. Add cabbage, red bell pepper, carrots, green onions, tamari, rice vinegar and water, stir fry for 5 – 7 minutes, or until cabbage wilts and veggies soften. Add the tofu to the cabbage stir fry 2 minutes before done to warm through. Taste for seasoning, adding salt to taste.
Serve cabbage stir fry with cooked grain of choice and garnish with sesame seeds, green onions and/or cilantro.
Serves 4
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat. Add onions, cook until soft and edges browned, about 5 – 6 minutes. Add garlic, cook 1 minute more. Add the chili powder, cumin, oregano, garlic & onion powder, cook 1 minute more (or until fragrant).
Simmer: Add the beans, diced tomatoes, tomato paste, sweet potato, green chilies, and vegetable broth, stir until combined. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover slightly askew and cook for 30 – 40 minutes, stirring occasionally. Chili is ready when sweet potatoes are tender. Add additional water if chili is too thick for your liking.
Serve with optional garnishes. You may also like to top it with this easy Cilantro Lime Cashew ‘Sour Cream’.
Serves 4 generously
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer, in freezer-safe containers, for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot, heat oil or water over medium heat, saute the onions and garlic for 5 minutes. Add the mushrooms, thyme and wine, cook for 5 minutes.
Simmer: Add the broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes. In the last five minutes, add the coconut or plant milk, continue cooking for five minutes.
Slurry: Mix the cornstarch with cool water. Add to the soup and stir frequently for 1 – 2 minutes until soup slightly thickens. If the soup is too thin, add more cornstarch slurry as needed until desired consistency is reached.
Remove from heat and stir in the parsley. Season with salt and pepper.
Serve with homemade Artisan Bread or Naan to soak up the juices and swipe up every last bit of goodness!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days, store covered. To keep longer, store in the freezer using freezer safe containers or baggies for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Using a small blender (or double recipe if using a regular blender), combine ingredients, minus the herbs, and blend until smooth. If too thin add more hemp hearts, if too thick add a tad more water to thin. 
Add in the herbs and blend until incorporated. Taste for flavor adding anything extra to suit your taste…more lemon?…more herbs?…more garlic or onion powder? Chill before serving.
Makes about 1/2 cup, serving 2 – 4.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Cucumber: Slice the cucumber in half lengthwise, cut the halves in half lengthwise, and chop the cucumber slices into 1/2 inch pieces.
Avocado: Slice the avocado in half lengthwise, remove the seed and using a large spoon scoop the avocado flesh from the skin.
Blend: Add the cucumber, avocado, garlic, cumin or dill, lemon, and salt to the cup of your blender or food processor. Blend until creamy.
Enjoy chilled or at room temperature.
Serve garnished with diced tomatoes, red onions and cilantro if you like. You could even top with julienned carrots, diced colorful bell peppers, etc. Most veggies will make a nice garnish and taste well with this dish while also adding some texture.
This is 2 small servings or one large serving.
Instructions
Prep veggies: Start by preparing your veggies. Spiralize or julienne (either by hand or with a julienne tool) the zucchini & squash for the pasta. Set aside.
Meatballs: Place ingredients for the meatballs into your food processor/blender, blend until well combined but still a bit chunky (not too chunky, but just a very minimal amount). Taste for seasoning. Scoop out 3 tablespoons of mixture at a time and form into balls by gently flipping back and forth between your palms and use your fingers to mold making a nice circle shape. Makes about 8. Set aside.
Serve: Layer pasta in individual serving dishes, top with marinara, a handful of veggies and a couple meatballs. Finish it off by topping with a light dusting of almond parmesan and some fresh cracked pepper. Enjoy!
Serves 2 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.
Instructions
Place all ingredients into the bowl of a food processor/blender and process until your desired consistency. Add more nutritional yeast, garlic powder and salt to taste.
That’s it – it’s ready to sprinkle on soups, pastas, salads, pizza, even sandwiches may benefit from a sprinkle or two!
Makes about 1 cup.
Serves 8, 2 tablespoons per serving.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in the fridge or pantry, and will last up to a couple months if you have it around that long. Will last longer in the fridge.
Instructions
Pasta: Cook pasta al dente according to package. Drain and reserve 1/2 cup of pasta water. Rinse pasta well under cool running water, set aside.
Saute: In the pot the pasta was cooked, heat the butter over medium heat, add garlic and red pepper flakes, and saute for 30 seconds to 1 minute. 
Add pasta: Add the cooked pasta and 1/4 cup of pasta water, heat until pasta is warmed through.
Add lemon + parsley: Reduce heat to low, stir in the lemon juice, lemon zest and parsley. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Serve: Place in individual serving bowls and top with grated vegan parmesan or Almond Parmesan. Add extra lemon zest, salt and pepper to taste. 
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. Reheat on the stove over low heat, adding a little water or lemon juice for moisture. Alternatively, warm in the microwave.
Instructions
Vegan buttermilk: Start by making your buttermilk, combine milk and lemon, set aside for 10 minutes or so. This allows them time to mingle.
Preheat: Preheat griddle to manufacturer’s instructions. Or warm a skillet over medium heat. Lightly grease before using.
Make batter: Whisk together the flour, baking powder, sugar, salt and chia seeds in medium mixing bowl, give a good stir to combine and distribute the seeds. Pour in the buttermilk, vanilla, and lemon zest, mix well.
Scoop and pour: Using a 1/4 or 1/3 measuring cup, scoop and pour batter on to griddle. Cook until bubbles form on top or edges, and flip, usually about 3 minutes per side, depending on your griddle/skillet. Repeat until batter is gone.
Serve with strawberries (or other berries of choice) and pure maple syrup.
Makes about 6 pancakes
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 7 days in a covered container. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for 2 – 3 months. Pop in toaster oven or microwave to reheat.
Instructions
Place ingredients in food processor, except water, and blend until desired consistency. 
Taste for flavor adding anything more to your liking…more garlic? more lemon? more tahini? more salt? blend again. 
Add water one tablespoon at a time to thin if needed (when using as a sandwich spread or binder I prefer a thinner hummus and will add a few extra tablespoons of water to thin it out nicely). 
Serve however you like! It’s great either at room temp or chilled.
Makes 1 1/2 cups. 
Store in airtight container in refrigerator for up to 6 – 7 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or silicone mat.
Prep and roast the squash: Prep the squash, cutting into 1/2 inch cubes. Place squash on baking sheet, drizzle with oil and sprinkle of salt. Place the sheet pan in the oven and roast for 30 minutes. Once done let squash cool a few minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees.
Make the cashew ricotta: While the squash is roasting, make the vegan ricotta and mix in the spinach. Set aside.
Cook the pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions, drain and set aside.
Make the butternut squash sauce: In a food processor or high speed blender, add 4 cups of the roasted squash, reserving the rest to stuff the shells. Add the garlic, red pepper flakes, thyme, salt and 1 cup of water, blend until smooth, adding more water as needed to thin. I used about 1 1/2 cups, you don’t want it too thin, but not too thick either, use your best judgement. Alternately, Sauce can be made using a stick blender and the pot you cooked the pasta in.
Layer and stuff the shells: Place the sauce at the bottom of your baking dish, spreading it from side to side to coat the entire bottom. Scoop one heaped tablespoon of ricotta filling into each shell along with 3 pieces of butternut squash. Ricotta will fill about 18 shells. Use a 12 inch round or 9×13 rectangular dish.
Bake: Cover and bake in the oven at 350 degrees for 15 – 20 minutes, or until warmed through.
Serves 6 (3 shells per serving).
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days, in a covered container. For longer storage, keep in the freezer in freezer safe containers (affiliate link) for 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Break frozen bananas into small pieces. Place bananas, splash of liquid and cocoa/cacao into blender or food processor, blend until desired consistency scraping down the sides every now and then, will take anywhere from 3 to 6 minutes. Add a tad more liquids as needed.
Scoop into individual bowl/s, top with fruit, nuts, cocoa nibs or coconut flakes. Enjoy right away.
Serves one generously, with enough to share if you like. :)
Instructions
Crust: Place almonds, dates and salt in a food processor/blender, and blend until course. Line a round 8 × 8 or 9 × 9 pan or spring-foam pan with parchment paper or cling wrap. Add the nut crust to the pan and gently press against the bottom and around the corners, filling in as evenly as possible.
Rinse food processor/blender and begin the filling.
Filling: Place the drained cashews, milk, maple syrup, vanilla and salt back in the food processor/blender, blend until smooth scraping down the sides as needed. Be patient and let the machine run a few minutes extra to be sure it’s smooth. Add the raspberries to the filling and fold in by hand using a spatula. Add the mixture to the prepared pan, making sure to spread evenly filling in the entire pan. Gently tap pan on a flat, hard surface to remove air bubbles. Top with optional toppings (you can also add toppings after it’s been frozen).
Freeze: Place in freezer for at least 6 hours to overnight.
Serve: Before serving, pull cake from pan and remove the parchment paper/cling wrap. Let set 5 – 10 minutes before slicing. Enjoy this easy, vegan cheesecake! It’s quite addicting. :)
Keep leftovers in the refrigerator.
Serves 8 – 12
NOTES:
If you’d like to cut down on the nuts, try using old-fashioned oats in place of the almonds when making the crust.
Vary up the crust by adding 2 tablespoons of cacao powder for a chocolate version. Alternately, add in 1/4 cup shredded coconut for a coconut flavor. And, if you feel like making it supreme, add both the cacao and coconut when making the crust for maximum flavor!
Make this raw by using homemade nut-milk.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I used this 8 x 8 spring foam pan. For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Instructions
Prepare your veggies and beans. 
Slice your bread and remove some of the soft bread from the inside of the top slice, making a slightly hollow area for the sandwich filling (this is optional depending on what your rolls are like, you be the judge, I removed a small amount from mine).
Spread a good amount of the refried black beans over the bottom half of each roll. Top with avocado, radishes, red onion and cabbage. Spread your condiment of choice on the top portion. Squeeze some lime over the bottom portion and cover with the top half of the rolls. 
Serve immediately, or wrap and pack to go (if you can get out of the door without eating them). 
Makes 3 sandwiches
Instructions
Slice and press tofu: Remove tofu from package, turn on it’s side and carefully slice into 3 slabs. Place slabs between 2 clean dishcloths or towels, lay a heavy object over top to press out excess moisture. I used my large cutting board but a heavy cookbook will do the job too. Let set under pressure for about 10 minutes.
Saute onions: Peel and cut the ends off the onion, lay onion cut side down and cut in half. Slice onion into thin strips, about 1/8 – 1/4 inch. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a skillet or medium size pan over medium heat. Add onions and cook, stirring frequently, until golden and browned on the edges, about 10 minutes. Remove from pan and set aside. If you happen to leave your onions in the pan take note that they may continue cooking from the heat of the pan, pay close attention so they don’t burn too much.
Pan-fry tofu: Heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium-high heat in a cast iron skillet or pan. Add tofu and cook without touching for about 4 – 5 minutes per side, or until golden brown. Sprinkle with salt and garlic powder after the first flip.
Prepare bread & avocado: Toast your bread, or not, and slice your avocado. You may even prefer to mash your avocado right in its shell with the back of a fork and spread like butter. I find I use the latter method most often.
Assemble: Layer your sandwich as you like. I layered mine from bottom to top with mustard (dijon and habanero mix), leafy greens, tofu, sauteed onions, salt & pepper, avocado and more mustard. Every bite was so delicious!
Serves 3
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees.
Line a rimmed baking sheet with a silpat or parchment paper. Alternately, grease baking sheet lightly with oil.
Wash and pat dry the sweet potatoes. Remove any unsightly spots. Cut potatoes lengthwise into quarters, and cut those as needed, preferably no larger than 1 inch thick. Place on baking sheet, drizzle with oil and give a good toss. Arrange potatoes in a single layer, sprinkle with salt and optional spice/herb of choice (I used a light dusting of chipotle powder). Place baking sheet in the oven, on the middle rack, and bake for 25 – 30 minutes, turning once or twice.
Remove from oven, let cook a few minutes and serve with a sprinkle of chopped parsley and garlic aioli. For variation try this Sriracha Cream Sauce (Aioli), it’s delicious!
These are best straight from the oven, but cooled isn’t so bad either. If you have leftovers, they’ll still be good the next day.
Store leftovers, in an airtight container, in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, combine the corn, bell pepper, onion, jalapeno, lime juice and salt, mix well to combine. Taste for flavor adding more lime juice or salt to taste.
Makes about 4 – 5 cups.
Store: Keep leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, freeze portions in freezer safe containers or baggies.
Instructions
Potatoes: Place potatoes in a large pot, cover potatoes with 1 1/2 inch of water, add generous pinch of salt. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to a gentle boil and cook about 15 – 20 minutes, until potatoes are just fork tender. Drain potatoes and let cool. Once cooled, gently peel the skin away (or leave it on if you prefer). Pinch the potato skin with your thumb and forefinger, skin should come off with ease. Cut the potatoes into 1/2 inch cubes. Alternatively, cube the potatoes first, then boil.
Prep veggies: While potatoes are cooking and/or cooling, prepare the green onion, and celery.
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the mayo, mustard, ground celery seed, salt and pepper, and mix well. If dressing is too thick, add a tad more water or lemon juice.  Alternatively, if dressing is too thin, add more mayo. If using store bought mayo, I like to add 2 tablespoons of water to thin, as store bought may is very thick. 
Assemble: In a large bowl (or pot you cooked the potatoes in) place the potatoes, onion and optional celery. Pour the dressing over top and mix to combine. Season with mineral salt and fresh cracked pepper.
Serve as is, or store in the refrigerator for an hour or so before serving. Garnish with paprika, chives, parsley, dill or even radishes.
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Serves 6 
Instructions
Place bananas, almond butter, cocoa powder, optional vanilla, milk and ice cubes into blender, blend until smooth.
Serve in small to medium-sized bowls with optional toppings of choice. For a more traditional smoothie, serve in a glass with a few of the optional toppings. Use a wide straw or spoon.
Serves 2
Instructions
Preheat oven to 275 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment or silicone mat, or lightly grease with coconut oil.
Combine: Mix all of your dry ingredients together in a large mixing bowl. Pour the maple syrup overtop and mix well to coat. 
Layer: Spread the granola in a single layer on baking sheet. 
Bake: Place sheets in oven and cook for 30 – 40 minutes, stirring every 10 minutes or so to ensure even toasting.
Let cool: Once done, remove from oven, let cool completely, granola will stiffen as it cools.
Makes 4 cups.
Store: Keep leftovers in an airtight container for up to a month.
Instructions
Stove-top: Add berries to a small saucepan, heat over medium stirring occasionally until softened. Using the back of a slotted spoon or fork, mash the berries along the side (or bottom) of the pan. Let mixture come to a gentle boil. The entire cooking time will be from 4 – 6 minutes. Once boiling occurs, remove from heat, add sweetener if needed and slowly add in chia seeds while stirring to combine. Fill jar and let cool a few minutes. Cover and place in the refrigerator to thicken. 
Store in the refrigerator. Will last up to 2 – 3 weeks (I’ve never had it longer than a week, it may even last up to a month, but if you notice any mold throw it away immediately).
Raw: Place berries and chia seeds in blender/food processor and pulse until desired chunkiness/consistency. Add maple syrup as needed and blend again.
Fill jar, cover and place in refrigerator to set for a couple hours. 
Keep stored in the fridge and use your raw chia jam within 1 week.
Makes about 1 – 1 1/4 cup (8 – 10 oz.)
Serves 8 – 10, 2 tablespoons per serving
Instructions
Line a 9 x 9 square pan (or 9 x 13 rectangular dish) with parchment paper. Alternately, lightly grease with coconut oil or non-dairy butter. Set aside.
In a large pot or pan, over low heat, gently warm the brown rice syrup and peanut butter, stirring frequently. Remove from heat, stir in the rice crispy cereal, mix until almost combined. Add in the cacao nibs, and continue mixing until well combined.
Place the mixture in prepared pan/dish, and gently, but firmly, press until compacted and evenly distributed.
Either cut into squares and serve as is, or place pan/dish in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes to let harden.
Store leftovers covered on the counter for 4 days or so, or place in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
Using a 9 x 9 dish will yield 9 bars.
NOTES:
If you can’t source One Degree Sprouted Brown Rice Cereal, feel free to use the original Rice Krispy Cereal for a true ‘crispy’ bar. There are a few other brands that have rice crispy cereal, I just haven’t tried them all but feel free to use any brand you know and like.
Use creamy or chunky peanut butter. Sun butter would be a great too.
Instructions
Roast poblano peppers using one of two ways.
Oven: Roast in preheated oven at 450 degrees for 20 minutes or so on a cookie sheet, turning halfway in between to flip peppers over.
Broiler: Roast your peppers in the broiler. To do this move the broiler pan about 6 inches away from heating element and preheat broiler. Place poblano peppers on a baking sheet and broil, turning often, until tender and blackened all over, 8 to 10 minutes. 
Steam peppers: Transfer to a large bowl, cover tightly with plastic wrap and set aside to let steam for 10 to 15 minutes.
While peppers are roasting, drain the tofu. No pressing is needed since we’ll cook off most of the moisture, but while prepping the veggies I like to set the tofu on its side in the tub it came in so the excess water will drain.
Tofu scramble: In a large skillet/wok, heat oil over medium heat, add onions, and cook for 4 minutes. Add tofu, crumbling between your fingers, and cook for 3 minutes. Add mushrooms, bell pepper and garlic powder, cook for another 3 – 4 minutes. Add spinach, cook for 2 – 3 minutes, until it starts to wilt. Add nutritional yeast and season with salt and pepper. Gently toss and cook for 1 minute.
Peel and de-seed peppers: Remove any loose skin off the peppers. Make one incision down the length of each pepper and carefully remove seeds. 
Stuff peppers: Scoop tofu mixture into peppers. If the peppers need to be heated, using the same baking dish you cooled the peppers in, place under broiler on low for a minute or two, watching closely so nothing burns.
Serve: Top with a drizzle or dollop of cashew cream and avocado slices. Salsa would also be great. I also loved having some warmed corn tortillas on the side as well.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container. Reheat in the oven at 350 degrees for 10 – 15 minutes. Alternatively,  heat in the microwave for 1 – 2 minutes.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a medium size pot, add water, cumin and quinoa, bring to boil over medium high heat, reduce to a simmer and cover, cook for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, remove lid and let set for 10 minutes.
Perp Veggies: While your quinoa is cooking, prepare the bell pepper, onion and corn. 
Assemble: Once quinoa is done, add the two beans, corn, red bell pepper, onion, cilantro and squeeze of 1 – 2 limes, mix well. Season with salt and pepper. Just before serving add in the diced avocado.
Serve with lime wedges and scooping leafy greens.
Serves 4 – 6
Store leftovers in and airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
NOTES:
As with all my recipes, add more or less of any ingredient to suit your taste.
Instructions
Place all ingredients in food processor and blend until desired consistency. Taste for flavor adding anything here and there that you like….garlic, lemon, salt, cumin. 
Depending on the size of your lemons or how many you used, you may like to add the extra 2 tablespoons of water for slightly thinner consistency.
Serve with toppings of choice or plain. I have garnished here with chickpeas, sesame seeds, chopped parsley, a drizzle of olive oil and a dash of smoked paprika.
Store in airtight container in refrigerator for up to one week or so.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Place pizza stone or large baking sheet into the oven while oven heats.
Prep the dough: Let dough come to room temperature. Lightly flour a cutting board or flat workstation, gently stretch with your hands and roll out into a 12 inch pizza round. Be patient with the dough, it will want to shrink back (this is because of the gluten) but keep going you’ll get it to stay in place soon enough. Place dough on a good size piece of parchment paper, this is the easiest way to transfer the dough. 
Par-bake dough: Once oven is ready, place dough on baking sheet and bake on the center rack for 7 – 10 minutes.
Layer pizza: Carefully remove pizza dough from the oven and layer starting with the sauce, then the tomato slices, artichokes, olives, chickpeas and finally the red onion. Give a good sprinkle of red pepper flakes and mineral salt. 
Bake: Place pizza back in the oven for an additional 10 – 15 minutes. Let cool a few minutes.
To serve: Add basil or arugula over top. Cut into 4, 6 or 8 slices. Serve warm with a sprinkle of almond parmesan.
Instructions
Crock-Pot: Place ingredients in crock pot, cook on low temperature for 2 – 3 hours, stirring every 20 minutes or so.
Stovetop: Place ingredients in a large pot and heat over medium-low, stirring occasionally, until chocolate is completely melted, about 10 minutes. Turn heat to low and cover, to keep warm until ready to serve.
Serve: Ladle into mugs and serve with a light dusting of cocoa powder. Also pairs well with a dollop of coconut cream on top.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 7 days, in an airtight container. Reheat on the stove over low or in the microwave for 30 – 60 seconds, or until warmed through.
NOTES:
Feel free to roughly chop the chocolate if you like. I added mine in large chunks, but it will help to melt down faster the smaller the pieces are.
You can also mix and match using chocolate pieces and cocoa powder. Use half and half (3 oz. chocolate pieces and 3 tablespoons cocoa powder. If adjusting differently, use 1 oz. chocolate pieces or 1 tablespoon of cocoa powder per every 1 cup of plant milk used.
Instructions
Saute: Heat oil in a large pot on medium heat, add onion and saute for 5 minutes. Add the garlic, ginger, cumin, coriander, turmeric, and paprika, cook 1 minute more, or until fragrant. Add carrots and zucchini, cook another 7 minutes or so. 
Simmer: Add the vegetable broth and bring to boil, cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 15 to 20 minutes.
Add remaining ingredients: Turn off heat, add coconut milk and lemon juice. 
Puree: Using an immersion blender, purée vegetables until creamy. Alternatively, you can transfer the soup to a standing blender to puree, may take two batches depending on the size of your blender cup.
Warm as needed: Return to low heat and warm through if needed. 
Serve: Serve with homemade Artisan Bread or crackers if you wish. I had some olive oil & sea salt pita chips with mine. Very delicious!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days, in covered containers. It’s also freezer-friendly for 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse your quinoa in a fine mesh strainer to remove any dust (sometimes I do this, sometimes I don’t). In a medium size pot, bring water, quinoa and garlic powder to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer on low for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, remove cover and let set for 10 – 15 minutes, fluff with fork.
Prep: In the meantime, finely chop your parsley and mint. Dice your cucumber, tomato and onion.
Assemble: Once quinoa is ready, add in the parsley, mint, cucumber, onion, tomatoes, hemp hearts, drizzle of olive oil and the juice of your lemons, salt & pepper to taste, gently mix together.
Serve with a few whole mint and/or parsley leaves and lemon wedges.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Prepare and cook pizza dough according to package directions. If using pre-made thin crust like I’ve done here, simply top and bake.
Top with 1/3 – 1/2 cup tomato sauce.
Add a layer of the pizza topping.
Bake on a lined cookie sheet or pizza pan for 10 – 15 minutes (or according to package directions).
Serve with chopped basil and light dusting of almond parmesan. For the pizza shown in the recipe, I cut mine into 4 slices, and ate folding my slice in half.
Instructions
Potatoes: Cut potatoes into 1 inch cubes. Add potatoes to a large pot and cover with water (I added a few sprigs of thyme to the water.) Bring to a boil and simmer until potatoes are tender, about 15 minutes. Drain potatoes, add butter/oil, mash into potatoes to melt, add milk and stir until desired consistency. Add salt and freshly ground pepper to taste and set aside in a warm place.
Filling: In a cast iron skillet, warm oil over medium heat, add onions and saute for 5 minutes. Add garlic, carrots, celery and mushrooms, sauté for 4 more minutes. Add the tamari and flour, mix well until flour is incorporated and no white streaks. Add the corn, kidney beans, green beans, asparagus, herbs, and vegetable broth, simmer for 10 to 15 minutes, until vegetables are tender. Add the spinach in the last 5 minutes, and let wilt. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Assemble: Spoon the potatoes evenly over the top of the filling and add a few sprigs of thyme or paprika for color. Place the skillet under the broiler, about 3 – 4 inches away, for 5 minutes to let the potatoes brown.
Let set a few minutes and serve warm. Gravy will thicken upon standing.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Roast: Place vegetables and chickpeas in a large mixing bowl, drizzle with olive oil and toss well to coat. Line a rimmed baking sheet with a silpat, light coat of oil or parchment paper. Place vegetables on baking sheet and sprinkle with mineral salt and garlic powder. Place sheet on middle rack and bake for 40 minutes, stirring once or twice. If using beets, prepare same as above but cook separately on a small baking sheet and place on the bottom rack. Remove the beets earlier if they seem to be cooking to fast.
Quinoa: In the meantime, add quinoa and water to a medium size pot, add a pinch of salt and dash or two of garlic powder. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and cook for 15 minutes. Once done, remove cover and let 10 minutes, fluff with fork.
Dressing: Prepare the dressing by adding the tahini, turmeric, lemon juice, water, salt and garlic powder to a small bowl and mix well. Add more water or lemon juice to thin, add more tahini to thicken.
Serve: In individual bowls place a handful of spinach (chopped if needed), 1/2 cup quinoa and a hearty helping of vegetables & chickpeas. Top with sliced avocado, pepitas and a generous amount of dressing. Enjoy!
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge. Will last for up to 5 days.
NOTES:
Vary up the dressing by adding 1/2 teaspoon ginger powder for some zing or 1/4 heaping teaspoon cayenne powder for heat. Make a double batch if you’d like since the dressing only serves 3. Leftovers store well in a sealed container in the refrigerator.
Change up the grain using farro, rice or barley. Cook grain of choice according to package.
I suggest cooking the beets separately to avoid them discoloring the other vegetables. 
Instructions
In a medium pot, add oil or water, and saute garlic for 1 minute. Add the tomatoes, basil, oregano, optional red pepper flakes and salt + pepper, bring to a gentle boil, turn down heat to low and simmer 15 – 40 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Makes about 3 cups.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Saute. In a medium sauce pan, heat oil or water, saute onions for 5 minutes, add garlic saute for 1 more minute.
Add remaining ingredients. Add in the beans, spices and water, bring to a simmer, and cook for 5 minutes.
Leave the beans as is for a ranchero or charro style bean or continue to next step.
Puree or mash the beans. My favorite way to puree the beans is using an immersion blender. You can also mash them using the back of a fork or slotted spoon, or potato masher. But I find the stick blender does the best at breaking down the beans into a nice creamy texture. Use your preferred method.
Warm the beans on low if needed and add the lime juice. Beans will thicken as they cool. Add more water as needed to thin.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer using freezer safe containers or baggies.
Instructions
Preheat a griddle according to manufacturer’s instructions (it’s usually 350 degrees for french toast). Alternatively, warm a large skillet over medium heat.
Mix: In a medium size, flat bottom, shallow bowl, mix together the milk, orange juice, sweetener, cinnamon, and vanilla extract.
Cook: Grease the griddle or skillet. Lightly dip both sides of toast into the mixture, place on the griddle, and cook until golden brown on each side, approx. 3 minutes per side. 
Serve with pure maple syrup and garnish of choice.
Serves about 3 – 4, depending on how thick you cut your slices. 2 slices per serving.
Instructions
In a medium bowl, add bananas and mash well, stir in non-dairy milk and chia seeds, mix well.
Let set for about 30 minutes, and give a good stir, repeat one more time, stirring again after 30 minutes. This step is an important step, as the seeds need to be stirred once or twice before completely gelling up and setting. If not stirred, the mixture will be soupy. Cover and place in the refrigerator for at least 6 hours, or overnight.
Serve with sliced bananas, toasted coconut flakes and cacao nibs/shaved chocolate. Would also be great with a dollop of coconut whipped cream!
Makes about 3 cups.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease loaf pan.
Mix: In a medium size bowl, combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, spices and salt. In a 2 cup measuring cup, combine oil, sugar, water/milk and vanilla. Add the wet mixture to the dry mixture along with the pumpkin puree and mix well. Careful not to over mix, but be sure there is no flour clumps. Taste batter, adjusting flavor or sweetness to your liking. 
Bake: Pour batter into prepared loaf pan, place in oven, on center rake, and bake for 55 – 60 minutes. Once done, remove from oven and let cool 5 – 10 minutes. Remove loaf from pan and transfer bread to a wire rack to cool slightly before serving. 
Sliced pumpkin bread is delicious warmed in a toaster oven and served with a smear of vegan butter.
Makes 8 – 10 slices
Store: Let cool completely before storing. Keep covered on the counter for 2 – 3 days. Warm in the toaster oven.
Instructions
Blend: 
Combine all ingredients, start with only 3/4 cup water, and blend until creamy smooth, stopping every now and then to scrape down the sides. 
Add additional water 1 or 2 tablespoons at a time until desired consistency. If you find you added too much water, add a few more cashews and blend. 
Taste for flavor, adding an extra date or two for added sweetness if desired. 
Store: Leftover cashew cream can be kept in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 days. Sweet cream will thicken when chilled. Keep in the freezer for 2 – 3 months, let thaw before using.
Makes anywhere from 1 1/2 cups and up, depending on how much water you use.
Instructions
How to roast red peppers: Preheat oven to 475 degrees F. Cut peppers in half, remove stems and seeds, place baking sheet lined with a Silpat or parchment paper cut side down. Roast on middle rack for 40 minutes, rotating baking sheet 180 degrees after 20 minutes. Peppers are ready when blackened and blistered. Using tongs place hot peppers in a bowl and cover with a large plate, let steam for 30 minutes. Once cooled, peel skin away from bottom to top. Discard peels. Peppers are now ready to be used. For more detailed instructions (with pictures) see my guide, How To Roast Bell Peppers, for different methods of roasting and storing peppers.
Prep: Gather your ingredients and prepare the veggies, make everything handy. 
Bread: Just before assembling your sandwiches, get your bread ready, if toasting go ahead and do so.
Assemble: Spread hummus on one slice of bread. Take the back of a fork and mash 1/2 avocado in its skin. Spread avocado on the other slice. Layer with the leafy greens, tomato, cucumber, red bell pepper, onion, basil and a sprinkle of mineral salt & fresh cracked pepper.
Slice in half and enjoy!
Makes 2 sandwiches
Store: Sandwiches can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 – 2 days. These are best eaten within 24 hours.
Instructions
Prep the kale:
Wash and dry the kale leaves.
The kale may need to be trimmed based on personal preferences. You may choose to keep the thick central ribs intact or remove them. For this recipe, I just removed the tougher ends.
Next, stack the leaves on top of each other (if using curly kale you may only be able to do a few leaves at a time). Using a sharp knife, cut the leaves widthwise in to thin strips across the leaves. Once done, give it a quick rough chop.
Saute Kale: Heat oil or water in a large, heavy-bottomed skillet or wok over medium-low heat. Add kale and saute for 3 – 4 minutes, stirring frequently.
Add seasoning: Add the nutritional yeast, garlic powder, salt and pepper, continue to cook until kale is wilted and turns bright dark green, about 4 – 5 minutes (shown below).
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in covered containers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
In a large pot, heat oil or water over medium heat, add onions and cumin seeds, cook for 5 – 7 minute, until onions are browned around the edges. Add the ginger and garlic, cook 1 to 2 minutes more. Add the garam masala, turmeric, garam masala, cayenne  and cook for 1 – 2 two minutes, or until nice and fragrant. Add tomatoes and cook for 4 minutes, until they breakdown a bit. Add tomato paste, chickpeas and coconut milk, stir to combine and bring to a gentle simmer, stirring occasionally. Simmer, covered, for 25 to 30 minutes over low heat, stirring occasionally. Adjust seasonings to taste.
Serve with rice, cilantro lime rice, quinoa, couscous, or pair with vegan naan.
Serves 6
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven or stock pot, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion and cook until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and red pepper flakes, cook another minute or until fragrant. 
Simmer: Add lentils, broccoli, broth/water and optional coconut milk. Using the back of a fork or spoon press the broccoli down as much as you can to cover with liquids. Bring to a boil, cover pot with lid, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 – 20 minutes. Soup is done when lentils are tender. Season to taste with salt + pepper. 
Puree: Using an immersion blender puree until desired consistency. Or once cooled a few minutes, use a food processor/blender to puree (this method may take two batches to complete).
Serve: Ladle into serving bowls and top with mustard seeds, scallions and almonds. Pairs great with homemade Artisan Bread or biscuits of choice. If you have a lemon on hand, add a squeeze to your soup for added brightness.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating. Reheat on the stove or microwave.
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven, heat oil or water over medium heat, add onion, carrots, and celery, saute for 7 – 10 minutes. Add the garlic, smoked paprika, thyme, basil, oregano, and garlic & onion powder, cook until fragrant, about 1 –  2 minutes.
Simmer: Add the black-eyed peas, tomatoes, and vegetable broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 20 minutes (for canned) to 1 1/4 hours (for soaked), or until beans are tender. Before soup is done, about 5 – 10 minutes ahead, stir in the collard greens. Season with plenty of salt and pepper.
Serve: We love adding a squeeze of lemon over the top of our serving bowls for brightness. And this slightly sweet Vegan Cornbread is the perfect accompaniment to this savory soup!
Serves 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Using an 9×9 baking dish, add rhubarb and strawberries directly to the dish, add sugar and stir gently to mix.
In a medium size bowl, mix together the ingredients for the topping. Spread evenly over top the strawberries & rhubarb mixture.
Bake on the middle rack for 40 – 50 minutes. Will be done when mixture is bubbly and top is golden. Let cool 10 minutes.
Serve warm with a dollop of non-dairy vanilla yogurt or a scoop of your favorite non-dairy vanilla ice cream.
Serves 6 – 8
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a sheet pan with parchment paper, a silpat, or lightly grease with oil.
Assemble: Place the sweet potatoes, onion, bell peppers and chickpeas on the center of the sheet pan, drizzle with olive oil, garlic powder, salt and pepper, toss well to coat. Arrange the sweet potato mixture in a single layer.
Roast 1: Place sheet pan in the oven, on the center rack, and cook for 20 minutes, stirring halfway through.
Roast 2: Turn heat up to 500 degrees F., stir a second time and continue baking for another 20 minutes, stirring halfway through. Let cool a few minutes.
Dressing: While the breakfast hash is roasting, whisk together the tahini, water, lemon, salt, and sriracha in a small bowl. Let rest for flavors to develop. Taste for flavor before serving.
Serve: Place in individual bowls and serve with sliced avocado and creamy sriracha tahini sauce. Season with salt + pepper to taste. You may also like this easy Sriracha Cashew Cheese Sauce!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days.
Instructions
Drain the tofu, no need to press as the water will dissipate as it cooks. I typically let the block of tofu rest on its side thin side to drain for a few minutes before using.
Cook Tofu: Heat the skillet over medium heat, add the tofu while crumbling it between your fingers (above right). Alternatively, add the tofu block to the skillet and use the back of a fork to mash it a bit. You can also break it up with a wooden spoon. Do whatever is comfortable or makes sense for you. Cook for 2 – 3 minutes.
Add seasoning: Add the turmeric, nutritional yeast, optional garlic + onion powder, salt and pepper, cooking for 2 minutes more, stirring frequently. If adding veggies, this is the perfect time to add them.
Add cream: Lastly, add the vegan cream and black salt, and cook another 3 minutes, stirring frequently.
Serves 4
Serve right away with Breakfast Potatoes or Home Fries, and fresh fruits. Also great with a slice of toasted Artisan Bread!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Panko: In a small bowl combine the bread crumbs with 1 tablespoon olive oil, mix well using your fingers, set aside. Add a little extra oil if you feel you need it.
Saute: Heat the remaining oil in a skillet/pan over medium heat, add onions and saute for about 5 minutes, until onions are translucent. Add in garlic and cook 1 minute more, add artichoke and spinach, cook until spinach wilts.
White Bean Base: In food processor, add beans, lemon juice, water, nutritional yeast, herbs of choice, salt and red pepper flakes. Process until creamy scraping down the sides as needed. Add the puree to the sauteed artichoke and spinach mixture and mix well.
Assemble: Fill a small baking dish with mixture, add a layer of the olive oil bread crumbs over top.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake, covered for 10 minutes (I don’t use foil anymore and covered my dish with a small silpat, worked well). After 10 minutes, remove cover and cook an additional 10 minutes. If top doesn’t turn golden, place the dip in the broiler to brown, about a minute or two should do. Just be careful it doesn’t burn. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serve: Pair with with toasted sour bread, pita chips or crackers. You can also serve this with fresh slices of colored bell peppers.
Makes about 3 cups.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Cook lentils: In a dutch oven or large pot, add vegetable broth and lentils, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 40 – 45 minutes, most to all liquid should be absorbed. (If most liquid is not absorbed, cooked until it is mostly absorbed. If by chance your liquid absorbs too fast, add a tad more water as needed and continue the process.) Lentils should be overcooked and tender. Set aside to cool, uncovered, for 15 minutes. Mash lentils with the back of a spoon or fork, or roughly puree using an immersion blender or food processor, about 2/3 – 3/4 of the lentil mixture.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Toast walnuts: Spread walnuts on a small rimmed baking pan, place in oven and toast until fragrant, about 10 -15 minutes. Set aside to cool..
Prepare vegetables and apple: Heat oil in a medium size pan over medium heat, add onion, garlic, celery and carrot, saute for about 5 minutes. Add apple, fennel, sage salt & pepper, heat for another 3 – 4 minutes.
Combine everything: Add the sauteed mixture with the lentils and mix. Add flour, oats, walnuts and 1/2 cup apple sauce, mix well to combine. If mixture seems to dry, add a little more apple sauce, mix again. Taste for seasoning adding extra herbs, salt and pepper as needed.
Line a 9 x 5 loaf pan with parchment paper, (this will make for easy removal later), add mixture and press down gently but firmly to remove any air pockets, fill in along the edges as well.
Make glaze: In small bowl, mix together the glaze and spread over top lentil loaf as evenly as you can. Here you can even add a fresh sage leaf in the center of the loaf, it won’t burn, it may roll a bit on the edges, and will add a nice decoration.
Bake: Place loaf in oven, on middle rack, and bake for 45 – 50 minutes. Remove from oven, let cool 10 minutes, remove from pan using the edges of the parchment paper. You may like to mix a bit more sauce and spread over top. Place loaf on serving dish, cut and serve individual slices.
Serving suggestions: Serve with roasted or mashed potatoes, or potato & cauliflower mash, a side of green beans or any combo of roasted brussels sprouts, carrots, butternut squash and beets. A simple fresh green salad with a light vinaigrette is also a great side! Leftovers make for great sandwiches!
Makes 8 slices.
Instructions
Pasta & Peas: In a large pot, add water and bring to a boil. Cook pasta according to package directions, add the peas with the pasta to cook. Pasta should be al dente or just fork tender.
Sauce: Add the cashew sauce ingredients to a personal blender or high-speed blender, blend until creamy, about 1 minute.
Assemble: Once pasta and peas have been drained, add back to the pot they were cooked in and add the cashew cheese sauce overtop, stir to combine.
Serves 6 – 8
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Place cubed potatoes on the center of a rimmed baking sheet lined with parchment paper or silicone mat (no liner is fine too). Drizzle with olive oil, garlic powder, paprika, salt and pepper. Using your fingers and hands, toss the potatoes well and spread into a single layer. (Alternatively, you can add everything to a bowl, toss, and place on the baking sheet.)
Place in the oven, on the center rack, and bake for 25 minutes, stirring once.
Turn oven to 500 degrees F. and roast another 10 – 15 minutes, stirring once until edges are golden and crispy.
Let cool a few minutes and serve right away.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container. To keep longer, freeze the potatoes for up to 2 months in freezer safe containers or ziplock bags.
Instructions
Place all the ingredients in a small to medium sized bowl and toss together.
Store leftovers in an airtight container.
Makes about 3 1/2 – 4 cups.
Serves 14 – 16. Serving size 1/4 cup.
NOTES:
*If using shredded coconut, use the smaller amount suggested. If using large coconut flakes, as pictured, use the 1/2 cup suggested.
**For the chocolate chips, if using mini-chips 1/4 cup will due. If using regular sized chocolate chips, 1/2 cup is good. I used these mini-chips.
Feel free to substitute, add or subtract any ingredient to suit your taste.
Optional subs & add-ins:
pineapple
cranberries
mango
apricot
dates
cashews
pretzels
cocoa nibs
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the ingredients for the peanut citrus dressing, set aside allowing the flavors to come together. Then before adding the dressing to the salad, taste for flavor adding anything extra you might like. For a thinner dressing add 1 or 2 tablespoons citrus juice or water. To make it thicker add a tad bit more nut butter.
Assemble: Prepare your salad ingredients. Check your dressing for flavor. In a large bowl the napa and red cabbage, scallions, red bell pepper, cucumber, carrots and peanuts or cashews, pour the dressing over top the salad and toss well to coat. 
Serve in individual bowls, top with peanuts or cashews, and red pepper flakes.
Makes 3 – 4 smaller salads, or 2 generous salads
Store leftovers in an airtight container for up to 5 days in the refrigerator
Instructions
Prep the onions. Cut the onions lengthwise, lay cut sides on flat surface and trim the ends. Peel away the outer skin, first thin layer of the onion. Place onion on one of the end cuts and slice lengthwise into thin strips. You should end up with about 2 lbs of sliced onions (about 8 – 9 cups).
Caramelize the onions. In at least a 4 qt. pan, heat vegan butter or olive oil over medium heat, add the onions, thyme, bay leaves, and salt (or salt + pepper). Cook the onions over medium heat, stirring frequently, for about 45 minutes (could take up to 1 hour). Onions are ready when they have softened and turned a deep golden brown.
Add the flour. Sprinkle in the flour, stirring well to incorporate until there are no white streaks, cook for about 1 minute.
Add the wine. Pour in the wine, continue to cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, to reduce the wine.
Add the vegetable broth. Lastly, add the broth and pepper, bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, for about 30 minutes. Season to taste.
Assemble soup bowls. Ladle soup into individual, oven safe, bowls. Add 1 or 2 slices of the baguette on top of the soup, and add a layer of cheese and sprig of thyme. Place bowls on a rimmed baking sheet as shown above right. Alternatively, warm toast the baguette slice with cheese separately following instruction below, adding to the top of the soup when serving.
Bake or broil. Place in a preheated oven set to 350 degrees F. for about 20 minutes. Alternatively, place 5 or 6 inches away from the broiler for about 5 – 7 minutes. The bread should get crispy on the edges, and the cheese will melt and may turn golden and slightly char.
Serve: Soup is best served right away while it’s warm. Alternatively, enjoy the soup as is with crusty bread on the side for dipping.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator, without the toppings, for 5 – 6 days. To store longer, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator before reheating.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the dressing ingredients, except for the cilantro. Use a tad more water as needed to thin. If dressing is too thin, add more tahini. Once blended to your liking, taste for flavor, stir in cilantro, and set aside.
Broccoli: Steam your broccoli just until al dente and bright green using a bamboo steamer, double broiler, or preferred method.
Assemble: Add romaine to your serving dishes, top with black beans, broccoli, avocado, pico de gallo, a few sprigs of cilantro, and slices of chili peppers. Top with dressing and enjoy!
Serves 2
Store: Leftover salad and dressing can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days.
Instructions
Preheat waffle maker according to manufacturer’s instructions. Also, preheat oven to 200 degrees F., for keeping the waffles warm.
In a medium sized mixing bowl, combine the flour, cinnamon, baking powder and salt, mix well. Add in the non-dairy milk, applesauce, butter/oil, and vanilla, mix well, until most of the flour lumps are gone.
If using this Cuisinart waffle maker (affiliate link), or one similar, using a 1/2 measuring cup, scoop up batter and pour in the center of the heated waffle maker plate. Close the cover and wait until the light turns green.
Gently remove and place waffles on a wire rack in the preheated oven until the remaining waffles are made.
Serve: Pair your waffles with warm Healthy Skillet Cinnamon Apples and pure maple syrup. Would also be great with this easy homemade Blueberry Compote. In the summer months, top with fresh fruit like sliced banana, strawberries, or other fresh berries.
Storage: Store leftover waffles in the refrigerator for up to a week, or store in the freezer for up to 1- 2 months. When ready to eat, pop them in the toaster oven.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a medium mixing bowl, combine the mirin, maple syrup, cinnamon, chipotle powder and salt, mix well. Add the almonds to the mirin mixture and toss to coat. Add in sesame seeds and combine.
On a large rimmed baking sheet, lined with parchment paper or silpat, spread almonds in an even layer. You may even like to sprinkle a little salt on top of the almonds for a little extra saltiness! 
Bake for 15 – 18 minutes, stirring once. Keep an eye on them after 15 minutes, so they don’t overcook and burn.
Remove from oven, let cool and to harden.
Instructions
Preheat a griddle according to manufacturer’s instructions (it’s usually 350 degrees for french toast). Alternatively, warm a large skillet over medium heat.
Mix: In a medium size, flat bottom, shallow bowl, mix together the milk, orange juice, sweetener, cinnamon, and vanilla extract.
Cook: Grease the griddle or skillet. Lightly dip both sides of toast into the mixture, place on the griddle, and cook until golden brown on each side, approx. 3 minutes per side. 
Serve with pure maple syrup and garnish of choice.
Serves about 3 – 4, depending on how thick you cut your slices. 2 slices per serving.
Instructions
Gravy: In a medium sized pot heat oil over medium-high heat, add flour and stir for 2 – 3 minutes, until it turns light golden brown. Add the garlic powder, poultry seasoning and nutmeg, mix well, add in the sausage and stir another minute or so. Mixture will form a ball of sorts. Slowly add the milk and continue to stir, bring just to a boil, reduce heat to medium and continue to cook, stirring constantly, until gravy has thickened to desired consistency, about 10 minutes. Use the back of the spoon/fork to help break up the sausage if needed. Gravy will thicken a bit more as it cools. Season with plenty of pepper and salt to taste. Set aside with lid on, or slightly askew stirring every now and then until ready to serve. If gravy cools too much, heat over low until warmed.
Biscuits: Make your buttermilk by combining the milk with the lemon juice. Let set for about 10 minutes.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Lightly flour a flat surface (use a cutting board, marble slab, etc). Leave a little extra flour on the side for your fingers and the biscuit cutter. Line a baking sheet with a silpat or lightly grease with oil.
In a medium size mixing bowl, add the flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt, mix well to combine. Add the chilled butter and cut it into the flour using a pastry blender or the back of a fork. You’ll know it’s ready when the butter is about pea sized and the mixture is crumbly looking. Add in the milk and mix until just combined, making sure there are no flour patches. The dough should form into a rough ball, it should be tacky not sticky. If mixture is too wet & sticky, add a little extra flour and mix just a needed.
Place dough on the prepared floured surface, pat it down into a rough circle or rectangle about 1 inch thick, fold dough onto itself. Repeat 2 more times (this will make for flaky biscuits). Add extra flour to your fingers or dough as needed. Gently flatten the dough to about 3/4 inch thick. Using a 2 1/2 inch cookie cutter, place cutter in the reserved flour, tap the cutter on the flat surface to remove any excess and press the cutter into the dough, repeat. As much as you feel you want to, do not twist the cutter in the dough as it crimps the edges and will interfere with proper rising. Place biscuits on prepared baking sheet, brush with a little olive oil or cashew milk over top if you like. Place in the oven on the middle rack for 15 -18 minutes.
Makes approx. 10 biscuits. You can get 12 if you rework the dough scraps. They won’t be the prettiest biscuits but they’ll still taste great.
Serve: Split the biscuits open face and serve gravy over top. Enjoy often!
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Instant Pot:
Saute: Add the oil/water, onion, bell pepper, and garlic to the insert of the Instant Pot, press the SAUTE button, and set the time for 5 minutes, stir frequently.
Cook: Add the rice, water, spices, tomatoes, corn, black beans, and finish with the enchilada sauce. Attach lid and turn to close, set valve to SEALING, and manually set to HIGH pressure for 5 minutes. Release pressure when done (to help keep the steam from getting all over, place a thin, single-layer kitchen towel over the valve to catch the steam).
Let cool to thicken: Remove lid and give a good stir. It will seem liquidy but will thicken after a few minutes. Add the cilantro and season to taste.
Stovetop
Rice: Cook 1 1/2 cups of rice according to package directions. Set aside.
Saute: Heat oil/water in a medium-sized pot, add the onion, bell pepper, and garlic, saute for 5 minutes.
Cook: Add the cooked rice, corn, tomatoes, black beans, spices, and enchilada sauce, cook over medium-low heat for 10 minutes, or until heated through.
Let cool to thicken: Remove from heat, let rest to thicken up, about 5 – 10 minutes. Add the cilantro and season to taste.
Serve in individual bowls with any of the optional garnishes. Also, use it as a burrito or taco filling with shredded lettuce!
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in a covered container. For longer storage, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months using a freezer-safe container.
Instructions
Soak sun-dried tomatoes: Start with softening the sun-dried tomatoes. Do this by placing them in a small bowl of warm, not boiling, water, and let soak for about 20 minutes. Drain water.
Make the sauce: Once tomatoes are ready, place all the ingredients into a food processor or blender, and blend until mixture is fairly smooth. You can also leave it a little chunky if you like. Taste for flavor adding more of anything you like.
Store: Leftovers sauce can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Makes 2 cups.
Serves 3
Instructions
Preheat waffle maker to manufacturer’s instructions.
Mix batter: In a medium size bowl, combine the flour, cocoa, sugar, baking powder, salt. Add non-dairy milk, oil and vanilla, mix until combined.
Cook: Pour batter onto the waffle iron, close and cook about 3 – 4 minutes (or according to your waffle maker’s instructions). Gently remove waffles and serve right away. You can also keep waffles warm in a preheated oven at 200 degrees F., keep waffles on a cookie sheet until all waffles are ready.
Serve: Top waffles with pure maple syrup. Pairs perfectly with fresh sliced strawberries, but any seasonal berry will be great too. For variation, try this Nut Butter Maple Syrup.
Makes 2 Belgian waffles (as shown) or 4 regular ones if using a classic waffle maker.
Store: Leftover waffles can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days, or in the freezer for 2 – 3 months. Reheat in the toaster oven.
Instructions
Preheat griddle according to manufactures instructions.
Mix: In a medium bowl, mash the banana until creamy, add the almond milk and vanilla, mix well. Add the flours, baking powder, and pinch of salt, mix until combined. Batter should be on the thicker side.
Cook: Add oil to griddle, using a 1/4 measuring cup, scoop and pour batter onto hot griddle. Cook until nicely golden brown on each side, about 3 minutes on each side. 
Serve with maple syrup, banana slices and walnuts. 
Makes 6 pancakes
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Roast veggies: Place veggies on a large rimmed baking sheet that’s lightly greased or lined with a silpat or parchment paper. Add a drizzle of oil and toss well. Add a sprinkle of salt over top. Place sheet on the middle rack and cook for about 25 minutes stirring every 10 minutes, vegetables are done when just fork tender.
Noodles: Cook your soba noodles according to the package directions. Be sure to use a large pot filled just under half way when cooking soba noodles. Once the noodles have come to a boil, the water tends to foam up quickly and overflow (ugg, I’ve learned from experience). Pay attention and reduce the heat as needed to prevent the water from boiling over while keeping the water at a gentle rolling boil. Most importantly, when done rinse the noodles right away under cool running water to keep them from cooking (or else you’ll have mushy noodles on your hands).
Miso Broth: Heat your water in a small pan until nicely warmed, but not boiling, (use the pot the noodles were cooked in to save a dish). Remove from heat, add miso and mix until miso is dissolved. This keeps the miso from overheating and killing the beneficial probiotics. You can opt to keep it on the burner on low to keep warm until veggies are done.
Assemble soup: Add noodles and vegetables to your serving bowl, top with broth and add a few of the garnishes. Some other optional garnishes would be a dash or two of sriracha or red pepper flakes.
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment or silicone mat. In an ovenproof saucepan, fill halfway with water and place on the bottom rack (this will give a little steam to your squash). 
Prep and roast the squash: Cut and seed your squash, place on baking sheet with cut side up. Brush each half with a little oil, and season with a sprinkle of thyme, salt and pepper. Place in the oven and bake for 40-45 minutes, until tender, knife should easily pierce the flesh. If by chance your squash is done first, cover with foil to keep it from drying out.
Rice: Cook your rice according to package directions. Wild rice will take about the same time as the squash to cook, about 40-45 min. Set aside.
Veggies: In large pan, heat oil on medium heat. Add onion and cook for 5 minutes, add garlic and cook 1 minutes. Add the mushrooms, bell peppers, thyme, red pepper flakes, a few twists of salt and pepper, cook for another 5 minutes or so, until the mushrooms start to sweat and soften. Add the beans and leafy greens, stir frequently until they are wilted and warmed through (you may also want to use a cover in between stirring to help soften the greens). 
Wild Rice Medley: Combine the rice and sautéed vegetables in the larger of the two pots. Taste for seasoning adding additional salt and pepper as needed.
Stuff: Scoop mixture into each acorn squash half and serve with any additional seasonings. I actually like to top mine with some sriracha for that extra heat and flavor I love so much. :)
Serves 6 (or 3 for the hearty eaters).
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in fridge for up to 4 – 5 days.
NOTES:
Quinoa or quinoa/rice combo would be great too and add even more protein per serving.
To make this oil free, omit the oil when roasting the squash and roast the squash cut side down to keep the moisture in. You can still add a little salt and pepper, and place a sprig of thyme underneath so the flavor with infuse the squash a little. Use water in place of oil when sauteing the vegetables.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love my Silpat or these parchment liners for lining this rimmed baking sheet (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials!
Instructions
Soak beans: The night before, rinse beans in colander with cold running water. Pick through and remove any broken or shriveled beans. Place beans in large pot with 5 or 6 cups water and cover to soak overnight.
Pre-Cook Beans: Next day, drain beans and rinse again. Place beans back in pot, add water, bring to a boil and simmer covered for 1 hour, drain and rinse.
Orange: Juice the orange and set the juice aside. Reserve the orange halves for the soup.
Cook Soup: To the pot of freshly cooked beans, add the bay leaves, garlic, cumin, paprika, onion, celery, carrots, bell pepper, water/broth, orange halves, salt and pepper, reserving the orange juice for later. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 40 minutes to one hour, or until beans and vegetables are tender, stirring occasionally. Add extra water as necessary (I used another 1 cup of water).
Puree: Once beans are tender, remove the orange halves and bay leaves. Use an immersion blender to blend soup to desired consistency. I blended about 3/4, leaving some chunkiness. You could also use a food processor/blender (this method may take two batches to complete). Blending is optional, you may like it chunky as is. Add the orange juice to the pureed soup and cook another 5-10 minutes.
To Serve: Serve alone or over a bed of cooked buckwheat, farro or brown rice. Top soup with a dollop of Sour Cream, Lime Cilantro Cashew ‘Sour Cream’ or Paprika Cashew Crema. You may also like to top it with diced onion, tomatoes, bell peppers, avocado, jalapenos, a squeeze of lime and/or cilantro.
Serves 4 generously, or 6 smaller portions.
Instructions
Place peeled banana, mandarins, spinach, hemp protein, water, and ice cubes into the blender cup and process until blended and smooth, about 1 minute.
Serves one
Instructions
Glaze: In a small/medium bowl, add the powdered sugar, maple syrup and non-dairy milk, mix well and set aside. Glaze should be thick. If glaze is thin, place in the refrigerator to chill and thicken.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, a silpat, or lightly grease with oil.
Mix: In a medium size bowl, mix the flour, baking powder, sugar, pumpkin spice and salt, blend well. Add the hardened oil, and using either a pastry blender or mixing spoon, mix well. Doesn’t have to be perfect. Add the pumpkin puree, vanilla, and non-dairy milk to the mixture, stir to form a dough. Using your hands, knead the dough into an even ball.
Shape & Cut Dough: Transfer the dough to a lightly floured surface. Lightly flour the top of the dough and pat into a 8 – 9 inch circle, 1 inch high. Using a knife, gently divide the dough into 6 – 8 slices.
Bake: Place the scones on the prepared baking sheet. Place in the oven on the center rake and bake for about 18 minutes, until lightly golden along the edges. Let cool a bit before transferring to a cooling rack.
Glaze Scones: Once cooled, place a spoonful right in the middle of each scone and use the back of the spoon to spread, or drizzle the glaze in a zig zag across the top of each scone. Let the glaze set.
Makes 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container, either on the counter or in the refrigerator, and eat within a couple of days.
Instructions
In a small bowl, mix together the dressing ingredients. Set aside to let the flavors mellow and come together. Check dressing for flavor before serving.
Prepare your salad ingredients and use 3 to 4 large beet leaves (about 1 cup lightly packed) and place all ingredients in a large bowl. Pour dressing over the salad ingredients, toss to coat. (You can also make this ahead of time and keep refrigerated until ready to serve.)
Serve topped with a good sprinkle of hemp hearts or sesame seeds, and some extra raisins if you like as they add a nice sweetness.
Serves 2 large portions or 4 -6 small portions.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
White pizza sauce: Place all ingredients in the bowl of a food processor/blender and blend until creamy. Taste for spices adding anything you may like. Makes about 2 cups. I had leftovers.
Prep veggies: Slice your zucchini and onions very thinly. You can use a mandolin or put your knife skills to work and slice.
Assemble pizza: Spread a layer of the ricotta on your flatbread and top with zucchini, yellow squash and onion slices. Add a sprinkle of salt and pepper.
Bake: Place pizza on cookie sheet lined with parchment paper and bake for about 15 minutes.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Roast veggies: In a large bowl, combine chickpeas, broccoli, cauliflower and radishes, drizzle with oil, garlic powder and salt, mix well to coat. Place mixture on rimmed cookie sheet or roasting pan. Cook for 30 – 35 minutes, stirring once in between.
Quinoa: In a medium pot add quinoa and 1 3/4 cup water. Sprinkle in a dash or two of garlic powder and mineral salt. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover and let rest for 10 minutes. Fluff with fork.
Tahini Dressing: In a small bowl mix together the tahini, optional nutritional yeast, lemon juice, salt and 2 tablespoons water, combine well. Add more water as needed to thin. If too thin, add a tad more tahini. Taste for flavor adding more salt or lemon to taste.
Serve: In individual bowls, place vegetables on top of 1/2 -2/3 cup quinoa, add a generous amount of sauce on top – don’t be shy with the sauce, it’s so good and healthy. Add freshly chopped parsley and cracked pepper or lemon pepper if you like.
Store: Leftover quinoa and vegetables can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a 5 – 6 days.
Serves 4
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl whisk together the apple cider vinegar, tahini, dijon, salt, and pepper. Set aside to let the flavors develop.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, add the cabbage, cucumber, carrots, radish, green onions, and cilantro. Pour the dressing over top and toss well to coat. Sprinkle with sesame seeds.
Chill: Place in the refrigerator, covered, for 2 – 3 hours to chill and soften. Alternatively, enjoy right away.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in a covered container. Give a good mix before serving.
Instructions
Alfredo Sauce: Remove any leaves and core the bottom of the cauliflower. Cut cauliflower into large florets and place in pot of boiling water. Cook for about 20 minutes, or until soft, drain. While cauliflower is cooking, heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in saute pan over medium to medium high heat, add shallots and cook until soft and lightly browned.
Place cooked cauliflower in blender/food processor along with beans, milk, shallots and nutmeg. Blend until creamy. Taste for flavor adding salt, pepper and any other spice you might like. Also, if sauce is too thick add a splash or so more milk (or water) as needed, blend again.
Veggies: In same saute pan you cooked the shallots, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat. Add mushrooms, kale, sun-dried tomatoes and red pepper flakes. Saute kale until it has sweated down, approx 5 min. You could use a cover to help. Turn off heat when done.
Pasta: Cook according to package instructions.
Assemble: Place cooked pasta back to the same pot it was cooked in, add as much sauce as you like. Stir gently to coat. Add a tad more sauce if needed. Alternately, add the veggie mix to the pasta and mix. Turn heat to low and cook until warmed through adding a splash or so of milk if needed to keep from drying out. We want to keep it moist and creamy.
Pairs well with this Artisan Bread!
Store: Keep remaining sauce or any leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge. Will last up to a week. When reheating, add more non-dairy milk to maintain creaminess if needed.
Instructions
Mash chickpeas: In a medium size bowl, add chickpeas and roughly mash 3/4 of the chickpeas with the back of a strong fork. You can also use a potato masher or pastry blender.
Add remaining ingredients. Add avocado, carrots, lemon juice, garlic powder, salt and pepper, mash and mix to combine.
Assemble sandwich: Layer your bread slices with leafy greens, onion and a nice helping of the mash. Top with remaining slice and enjoy!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in a covered container in the refrigerator for up to 2 – 3 days.
Instructions
Place ingredients into your food processor/blender, except milk, process, adding milk as needed through the feeder to help move the mixture around, blend until fairly smooth and creamy.
For soft-serve: eat right away.
For ice cream: place mixture into a freezer-safe container, cover and place in the freezer for at least 4 hours before serving. Scoop out like ice cream and serve.
Serve with mini chocolate chips, shredded coconut, or whatever you like.
Serves 2 to 3…or one as a meal.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a medium pot, add quinoa, water, and garlic powder, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove cover, fluff with a fork and let rest for 10 minutes. Alternatively, if you have a pressure cooker, this Instant Pot Quinoa Recipe is super easy!
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the nut butter, pure maple syrup, tamai, ginger, juice of 1 lime. Add a little water, 1 tablespoon at a time, as needed to thin. Taste for flavor, season with salt to taste.
Assemble salad: In a large mixing bowl, add the cooked quinoa, bell pepper, cucumber, carrots, cabbage, scallions, and cilantro. Drizzle with the nut butter dressing and toss to combine. Alternatively, toss the quinoa and veggies, and add dressing once plated.
Serve: Spoon into individual bowls, top with optional crunchy nuts and squeeze of lime.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days.
Instructions
Beans: If using dried beans, wash and pick through removing any unsightly beans or pebbles. Soak beans overnight or quick soak them according to package directions. Drain and rinse beans well. Place in a medium size bowl until ready to use. If using canned beans go to the next step and add the drained and rinsed canned beans as called for below.
Tomatillos: Prepare your tomatillos by removing the husks and washing them well to remove any of the sticky residue. Chop into quarters or six pieces depending on the size of your fruits. Cut and remove seeds from your jalapeno, and dice. Dice your onion and garlic.
Saute + Simmer: In a large pot, heat oil over medium high heat, add onion, saute for 5 minutes. Add in the garlic, tomatillos, jalapeno, cumin, coriander, and a pinch or two of salt, saute another 5 minutes. Add in the beans and liquids, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 1 1/2 – 2 hours (90 – 120 minutes), or until beans are tender, stirring occasionally. If using canned beans, cook for 20 – 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Season to taste.
Serve: Ladle soup into individual bowls and serve with diced avocado, cilantro, lime wedges and tortillas.
Serves 4 generously or 6 small portions
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium-high heat, add onion and saute for 4 – 5 minutes. Add garlic and sausage, cook another 1 minute, stirring occasionally. 
Cook: Add the mushrooms, tomatoes, basil, oregano, optional fennel, broth/water, pasta, and a good pinch of salt & twist of fresh cracked pepper. Bring mixture to a boil, give good stir, cover, reduce heat to low and let simmer at a constant gentle rolling boil for 15 minutes, stir occasionally. Remove from heat, stir in a little parsley and give a good stir.
Serve with a little extra parsley over top and a light dusting of Almond Parmesan. Pair it with a slice of your favorite crusty bread.
Serves 6 – 8
Instructions
Prep: Rinse quinoa using a fine mesh strainer under cool running water.
Pressure cook:
Place the quinoa, water, and any seasonings in the bottom of the Instant Pot insert. Attach lid, turning to the locked position.
Set the valve to SEALING.
Set to HIGH pressure and manually set to 1 minute cook time.
Let natural release for 12 – 15 minutes.
Fluff with a fork and let rest a few minutes.
Makes about 3 cups, serving 6 at 1/2 cup per serving
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before using.
Instructions
Vegan Buttermilk: To make a vegan buttermilk, add juice of small lemon to the milk and let rest for about 10 minutes. This can be optional.
Preheat: If using griddle preheat to manufacturers instructions.
Make batter: Combine flour, salt, sugar and baking powder into a medium bowl or wide-mouthed pitcher. Add milk and vanilla, mix until well combined.
Cook: If using a skillet, heat oil on medium heat. Place batter on griddle/skillet (I like to scoop the batter using a 1/4 or 1/3 cup measuring cup for uniform pancakes), cook until bubbles form around the edges or top and flip, about 3 minutes per side.
Keep warm: If needed, keep the pancakes warm in a preheated oven set to 200 degrees, on a baking sheet.
Serve with syrup, fresh fruit or any dessert sauce of choice.
Makes about 6 pancakes, serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 7 days in a covered container. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for 2 – 3 months. Reheat in toaster oven or microwave.
Instructions
Cashew cream: If using cashews, soak 3/4 cup of raw cashews in warm water for 5 minutes. Drain. Puree the cashews with 3/4 cup of water. Set aside. If using canned coconut milk, skip this step.
Saute: In a large dutch oven, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion, celery, and red bell pepper, saute for 7 minutes. Add the garlic, thyme, and optional smoked paprika after 5 minutes.
Simmer: Add the corn, potatoes, bay leaves, and vegetable broth, bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover askew, and simmer for 15 minutes (or until potatoes are fork-tender). Add the vegan cream or coconut milk 5 minutes before soup is done. Remove from heat.
Puree: Let chowder cool a few minutes and remove the bay leaves. Transfer 2 – 3 cups of the soup to a blender and puree. Add back to the soup, stir well, and season to taste with salt and pepper. For a thicker soup, puree up to half. Soup will thicken upon standing.
Serve: Ladle into individual bowls and top with your favorite toppings. 
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Batter: In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, baking powder, and cinnamon. Be sure to warm your milk if using coconut oil before using or it will harden the coconut oil when combined. Add milk and mix well. Add oil/butter, mix well again.
Assemble: Pour batter into an 8-inch baking dish. Drop blackberries into the batter, distributing evenly all over. Push down some of the blackberries into the batter, then add more over top. Sprinkle a little pure cane sugar over top if you like. I would refrain from using coconut sugar as it may burn. If you want to add coconut sugar, sprinkle some at least halfway through baking time.
Bake: Place in oven on the middle rack and bake for 40 – 45 minutes. Let cool a few minutes and serve.
Serve: Pair with a scoop of non-dairy vanilla ice cream for dessert and a scoop of vanilla non-dairy yogurt for breakfast (yes, this would be a fine way to start your day!)
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Warm serving portions in the microwave or oven set to 350 for 10 – 15 minutes.
Instructions
Drain tofu. No need to press and get it all, we’ll cook it long enough on the stove to remove the remaining moisture. Set tofu aside.
Sauté onion: In a skillet or wok, heat oil on medium, add the onions and sauté for 4 minutes. 
Add tofu: Add tofu to the pan while crumbling chunks between your fingers, cook for 4 minutes. 
Add veggies & spices: Add the mushrooms, broccoli, tomatoes, cumin, turmeric, garlic powder, salt, pepper and red pepper flakes, cook for 5 minutes. 
Add leafy greens & ‘nooch’: Add the greens and nutritional yeast, stir and cook until the greens soften and wilt. Remove pan from heat. 
Serve with salsa, avocado and season more to taste.
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or silicon mat.
Make the dough: In a medium bowl, whisk together the maple syrup, olive oil and vanilla. Add the almond flour and salt, mix well until the mixture forms a soft dough consistency.
Almonds: Place the crushed almonds in a small bowl, set aside.
Shape the cookies: Roll dough into 1 inch balls (I used a 1 tablespoon measuring scoop, scooping up rounded tablespoons full of dough). Roll the dough balls in the crushed almonds, and place on a rimmed baking sheet, about 2 inches apart.
Add the jam: Using your thumb or the back of 1/2 teaspoon measuring spoon, make an indent in the center of each cookie. Pinch together any large cracks around the sides of each cookie. Fill the indent with 1/2 teaspoon of jam.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 10 – 15 minutes, oven may vary (see notes). Once done, the cookies will be soft and harden as they cool.
Makes 16 – 18 cookies
Store: Store loosely covered on the counter for up to 3 – 4 days. You can also keep them in an airtight container, just note they will soften a bit but will still be chewy. Or keep in a covered container in the refrigerator for 7 – 10 days. To freeze, let cool and store in freezer safe containers with parchment paper between each layer, will keep for to 2 months.
Instructions
HAND CUT METHOD: 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees if slicing by hand. (if julienning see baking instructions below)
Wash your potatoes and remove any unsightly areas. 
Hand cut: Slice the sweet potato in half, place flat side down and cut thin slices, about 1/4 inch thick or smaller. Then turn your thinly sliced pieces on their side and do the same as before cutting thin slices. Try to get them as uniform in thickness as possible so they cook evenly. You may have to go through after cutting and double check your work.
Assemble: Place potatoes on your rimmed cookie sheet/s (I used two), add a small amount of olive oil (about 1 tablespoon), toss gently to coat. Place potatoes in a single layer, preferably spread out so they don’t touch much, sprinkle with mineral salt and seasoning of choice. 
Bake: Place in the oven for 15 minutes, remove sheet/s and rotate positions, bake for another 15 -20 minutes. Keep an eye on them after 15 minutes so they don’t burn. You may lose some, and ending cooking times will greatly depend on your oven. Allow to cool a few minutes. They will crisp up as they cool.
Best served immediately with choice of condiments.
JULIENNE METHOD:
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. (They will be a bit thinner and should be baked at a lower temp but for the same amount of time as if slicing by hand.)
Wash potatoes and remove any unsightly areas. 
Julienne: Trim the ends if you like (I usually skip this step). Julienne your sweet potato.
Assemble: Place on cookie sheet, you may need two, toss with oil, spread in a single layer as much as you can, and sprinkle with spices.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 15 minutes. Turn sheet around and rotate positions. You can also use a fork and lift the shoestring fries up moving them around a bit. Bake for another 15 – 20 minutes, careful towards the end as they may cook and burn quickly at this point. Keep an eye on them, removing any pieces that are too brown. You may lose some, and ending cooking times will greatly depend on your oven. Allow them to cool a few minutes, they will crisp up a bit. 
Best served right away with choice of condiments.
Instructions
Green Beans: Add 1 – 2 cups of water and generous pinch of salt to a heavy bottom pot, add green beans and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium and cook, uncovered, until green beans brighten in color, about 4 – 5 minutes. Transfer green beans to a serving tray or casserole. Cover to keep warm.
Almonds: Using the same pot, melt the butter, add the almonds and cook until golden, stirring often, about 5 – 6 minutes.
Assemble: Spoon the almonds over top the green beans, add a sprinkle of salt and squeeze of lemon. Alternately, toss the ingredients together in a serving bowl, instead of layering.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Make flour: Start by processing the almonds and oats, by pulsing them into a rough flour. It doesn’t have to be perfect and can be even chunkier than shown above.
Add remaining ingredients: Add the remaining ingredients, except for chocolate chips. Blend, scraping down the sides as needed, until combined. (I like to leave mine a little on the chunky side). Add 1 or 2 tablespoons more water as needed. 
Add chocolate chips: Remove mixture and place in a medium size bowl, mix in the chocolate chips.
Chill: Refrigerate for about 20 minutes, it will help the mixture stiffen a bit making it easier to handle.
Roll: Scoop dough and roll into 1 inch balls or flatten like a cookie. If forming them into balls you may like to roll them in cacao powder, cinnamon or shredded coconut. I’ve done all three and all were great! 
Makes approx. 16 – 18 energy bites
Store: Keep in the refrigerator and enjoy within 1 – 2 weeks. They also freeze well.
Instructions
Soak the cashews: It’s best to soak your cashews in water before starting. There are 2 ways to soak:
Soak cashew in cool water for 2 – 3 hours, drain and rinse (this method is best for digestion).
For a quick method of soaking, let cashews sit in hot water for 5 – 10 minutes, drain, rinse and continue with recipe.
Blend cashews and water: Place cashews and water into the cup of a high speed or personal blender and blend until creamy. Adjust the water, adding more to thin as needed.
Place in a covered container and place in the fridge until ready to use. Or use right away in any recipe calling for vegan cream.
Makes 1 3/4 cups (equals 14 servings, 2 tablespoons per serving)
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 1 week in an airtight container, stir before using.
Instructions
Preheat: Preheat griddle to manufacturers instructions, usually about 350 degrees for pancakes. Alternately, if using a stove-top griddle/skillet, heat over medium heat. Preheat oven to 200 degrees (for keeping pancakes warm), place cookie sheet on middle rack while oven is warming.
Mix: In a medium size mixing bowl, add the flour, sugar, baking powder, and spice, mix well. Add in the pumpkin puree, vanilla, and non-dairy milk, mix well.
Cook: Add enough oil to coat the griddle/skillet. Using a 1/4 measuring cup, scoop batter and place on griddle. Let cook about 3 minutes, edges will bubble slightly and start to look leathery, flip and cook another 3 minutes. Add oil to the griddle/skillet, and repeat until batter is gone.
Place finished pancakes on the warm cookie sheet, place in the oven to keep warm while cooking the remaining pancakes.
Serve with pure maple syrup. Adding 2 tablespoons of chopped pecans over top will add protein and texture.
Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, or keep in the freezer for up to 2 months. Reheat in the microwave or toaster oven.
Makes about 6 – 8 pancakes, serving 3 – 4.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line and 8 x 8 baking dish with parchment paper, or lightly grease with oil. If using a 9 x 13 baking dish, see recipe instructions below.
Flax egg: In a small bowl, combine 3 heaped tablespoons flaxseed meal with 1/2 cup water or unsweetened non-dairy milk. Let rest for 10 minutes to thicken.
Mix: In a medium size mixing bowl, add the 1/2 cup butter/oil/applesauce and sugar, mix well. Add in the flax eggs and vanilla, mix again. Add in the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder and salt, mix well to combine. May take a minute or so to completely become mixed.
Pour: Pour brownie batter into the center of the prepared baking dish. Spread to the edges as needed. Optionally top with chopped chunks of dark chocolate or vegan chocolate chips.
Bake: Place in the center of the oven and bake for 25 – 30 minutes.
Cool: Let cool in the baking dish. If you used parchment paper, after 5 – 10 minutes, lift the edges and move the brownies to a wire rack to cool.
Store: Keep loosely covered on the counter for up to 4 – 5 days. They keep longer in the refrigerator, up to 2 weeks.
Instructions
Apples: Wash, core and cut your apples into 1/4 inch slices. I like to cut mine into quarters, take a small paring knife and carefully remove the core and upper and lower end where dirt may still be collected (even after washing). Lay apple quarters on a flat surface with the inside of the apple facing up, carefully slice your apple into 1/4 inch slices, even 1/2 inch slices is good too. Whatever thickness you prefer, no rules here! Place apple slices in a small bowl with the lemon juice, toss to coat.
Nut butter: Heat your nut butter just until warmed and somewhat runny. I like to heat mine by using a small silicon bowl placed in a small pot with just enough water to reach half way up the side of the silicon bowl, heat water on low and gently heat the nut butter until warm and drizzable. Alternatively, warm in the microwave for 20 – 30 seconds.
Assemble: On a serving plate, lay your apple slices in a single layer around the outside edge, then layer another small layer over those but towards the inside center of the plate (like shown in the picture above). Drizzle the nut butter in a circular motion, from the middle of the plate to the outside edge. You can also just zig zag the almond butter from one side to the other if you like. Again, no rules – just do what you feel is best! Top with chocolate chips, coconut flakes, almonds and sprinkle of cinnamon (or whatever you’ve chosen to use as your toppings).
Serves one generously, or two as a small plate.
Enjoy this simple yet delicious treat!
Instructions
First step: To rinse the rice or not? It is recommended to rinse rice before cooking to remove any loose starches that may make your cooked rice to become gummy. I almost never do this, but if you find your rice does become gummy, you may need to make a habit of it. If using canilla rice, which calls for skipping this step to keep all the nutrients, I’ve never had a problem with gumminess using this rice.
Stovetop: Add the rice, water, garlic powder, bay leaf and salt to a medium sauce pan, add the water and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low, cover, and cook over a gentle boil for 18 – 20 minutes. Remove from heat, remove cover and let rest for 5 – 10 minutes. Remove bay leaf. Add the cilantro and lime, and fluff with a fork. Taste for salt and add more lime or cilantro to taste.
Rice Cooker: Add the rice, water (see manufacturer’s instructions for amount), garlic powder, bay leaf and salt to the bowl of your rice cooker. Pour the water overtop and cook according to manufacturer’s manual. Once the rice is finished, remove bay leaf. Let cool a few minutes, add the cilantro and lime juice, fluff with a fork. Taste for salt and add more lime or cilantro to taste.
Instant Pot: Add the rice, water and salt to the bowl of your instant pot. Attach the lid and turn to lock the lid. Set the steam valve to SEAL. Cook white rice for 4-8 minutes. If using other rice, see this instant pot cooking chart. Allow the pressure to release naturally for 10 minutes and then carefully release any remaining pressure.
Serves 4
Store: Leftover rice can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, kept in an airtight container. If planning on storing leftovers, be sure to cool it quickly and store it within 2 hours to avoid bacteria growth. To keep longer, store in the freezer using freezer safe containers or baggies for up to 2 months.
To Reheat: Add a splash of water over the top to loosen the clumps of dried grains. Reheat the rice in a pot over medium-low heat on the stovetop, stirring occasionally until heated through. Or heat in the microwave, covered, using 30 second intervals, stirring after each interval, until rice is warmed through.
Instructions
Rice: Cook the rice according to package directions. For best results, use day old rice.
Stir-fry: In a wok or pan, heat the oil over medium-high heat, add the garlic and ginger, cook until fragrant, about 30 – 60 seconds, stirring frequently. Add the rice, kimchi and frozen veggies, give a good mix, add the tamari and optional gochujang, stir fry for 3 – 4 minutes, or until most of the liquids have been absorbed. Taste for flavor, adding more tamari or chili pepper flakes.
Serve: Spoon into individual bowls with sliced nori sheets, scallions and sesame seeds.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 3 days in a covered container. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating on the stovetop or microwave.
Instructions
Ginger Cream: Combine ingredients in a small blender (I used the magic bullet) and blend until smooth. You will want it to be on the thick side and shouldn’t need any additional water. But if you forgo the soaking process, you may need to add a bit more. I suggest adding in 1 tablespoon of lemon juice or water at a time. If you find your cream is a bit too runny, add in a few cashews and blend. You can serve at room temp or refrigerate a bit before serving. The cream can be made a day or two ahead of time.
Simple Syrup: Combine either the dates, water, and vanilla OR maple syrup and vanilla into a small blender (I used the magic bullet) and blend until smooth. Feel free to add a tad bit more water as needed to thin if using dates. You can serve at room temp or refrigerate a bit before serving. The simple syrup can be made a day or two in advance.
Plums: Slice your plums thinly just before serving. I have given a more detailed way of slicing above. Here is the simple version: I placed my plums on a flat surface with the stem side up and sliced as thinly as I could by hand with a sharp knife starting from the outside and slicing in until I came to the seed in the middle. Do this for both sides.
Assemble: Place the plums however you like on your plate. Serve with a nice drizzle of the simple syrup and a dollop of the lemon ginger cream. Garnish with optional mint leaves. 
Serves 3 – 4
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse quinoa gently under running water to remove any dust. In a medium size pot, add quinoa and 1 1/2 cups water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Once done, remove cover and let stand 15 minutes, fluff with a fork. Perfect quinoa! Alternatively, use this easy Instant Pot Quinoa.
Dressing: While quinoa is cooking, combine all the dressing ingredients in a small bowl, taste for seasoning and let set.
Prep produce: Chop and dice your remaining vegetables, except the edamame. Place chopped vegetables and edamame in a large bowl, add the dressing, tossing gently to coat.
Assemble: Once ready, add quinoa to the vegetables and toss together. Serve with a little more sea salt & cracked pepper and squeeze of lemon on top.
Serve room temperature or chilled.
Makes about 8 cups. 
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil or water over medium heat, add leeks, carrots and celery and saute about 5 – 7 minutes (leeks should be softened and wilted). Add garlic and herbs & red pepper flakes, saute 1 minute more or until fragrant. 
Boil & Simmer: Add liquids and beans, bring to a slight boil, add kale, turn down heat to low and cook until kale softens and wilts, about 5 minutes. Add lemon juice and salt & pepper to taste. Add extra water/broth as needed.
Serve with a sprinkle of parsley and squeeze of lemon. A light dusting of Almond Parmesan would be a nice touch too. Pair with your favorite crusty bread or naan bread to soak up the juices.
Serves 4 – 6
NOTES:
Add in 1/2 cup of orzo before bringing to a boil, cook soup at least 10 minutes on medium before adding the kale. Add an extra cup of water if needed.
Use 1 onion in place of the leeks if needed. Dice onion and cook the same as the leeks in this recipe.
Use baby kale in the tub (5 oz.) if you prefer.
Nutrition information is calculated using 1 Tbsp oil and 3 cups veggie broth.
Instructions
Pasta: Cook pasta according to package instructions to al dente. Drain and rinse until cold water.
Assemble: Pour pasta into a bowl, add tomatoes, bell pepper, olives, red onion and parsley. Pour the dressing over top and gently toss to coat.
Serve at room temperature or keep in the refrigerator to chill for 30 minutes. Keep leftovers in an airtight container for up to 6 days. Add more vinegar, oil and/or lemon as needed.
Add a sprinkle of almond parmesan for added flavor!
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
In a small bowl or jar, whisk together the oil and dijon, until emulsified and creamy. Add the maple syrup and water, whisking to combine. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Serves one
Instructions
Rinse: Rinse your lentils well and pick through removing any oddly shaped or colored lentils. Rinse quinoa using a fine mesh strainer to remove any powdery residue.
Saute: In a large pot/dutch oven, heat water/oil over medium heat. Add onions, celery, carrots and garlic, saute for 5 minutes, until onions are tender. Add smoked paprika, cumin, basil, thyme and nutmeg, cook until fragrant, about 1 – 2 minutes. 
Add remaining ingredients: Add in lentils, quinoa, tomatoes, bay leaves, broth, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 35 – 40 minutes, stirring occasionally and tasting for flavor as you go. 
Add balsamic: Once done, remove from heat, add balsamic vinegar and stir. Remove bay leaves before serving.
Serve: Spoon soup into serving dishes and top with optional chopped parsley.
You may like to serve this with some fresh homemade Artisan Bread, Vegan Cornbread or Naan bread or gluten free, chickpea flour Socca flatbread.
Soup serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Prep: Preheat waffle maker according to manufacturer’s instructions. Also, preheat oven to 200 degrees F., for keeping the waffles warm.
Mix batter: In a medium sized mixing bowl, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, oil and non-dairy milk, mix well, until most of the flour lumps are gone.
Scoop, pour + cook: If not using a non-stick waffle iron, spray waffle plate with cooking oil. Using a 1/2 measuring cup (amounts will vary depending on your waffle iron), scoop up batter and pour in the center of waffle plate. Close the cover and cook as directed by manufacturer’s instructions. For crispier waffles, let cook 5 – 12 seconds longer, depending on your waffle iron.
Remove + keep warm: Gently remove with the tip of a fork and place on a wire rack in the oven until the remaining waffles are made.
Serve: Pair your waffles with fresh blueberries, strawberries, raspberries or blackberries, and top with pure maple syrup or this easy homemade Blueberry Compote. You may even like to drizzle with vegan chocolate syrup and add a dollop of whipped coconut cream.
Makes 4 – 5 waffles.
Store: Leftover waffles can be kept in the refrigerator for up to a week, or store in the freezer for up to 1- 2 months. When ready to eat, pop them in the toaster oven. Larger batches can be warmed in a preheated oven set to 350 degrees for 10 – 15 minutes, using a  greased or lined baking sheet.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Prepare vegetables: remove any unsightly spots on the sweet potato skins before cubing, peel the carrots if needed and half or quarter the brussels sprouts depending on the size. 
Roast: Place vegetables, chickpeas and lemon in a large roasting pan or rimmed baking sheet. Toss with oil and sprinkle with salt & pepper to taste. Roast for 40 – 45 minutes, stirring halfway through. Vegetables should be slightly browned on the edges and fork tender. Remove from oven and let cool a few minutes. 
Serve: In individual bowls, serve vegetables with 1/3 cup quinoa, handful of spinach, sliced avocado and a nice dollop of hummus. Top with a sprinkle of red pepper flakes, hemp hearts a squeeze of roasted lemons.
Serves 6
Store: Keep leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container. For storing and meal prep these multi-use glass containers (affiliate link).
Instructions
Noodles: Cook soba noodles according to package directions. Drain and rinse the soba noodles under cool running water (this helps them to not turn mushy!). (Note: If using 100% soba noodles, careful to watch the water after 2 minutes or so, it will start to become foamy and bubble over – turn the heat to medium and back up again as needed to keep the water at a boil but not boiling over.)
Miso Sauce: In a small bowl, whisk together the miso sauce ingredients together, set aside.
Assemble: Serve noodles in individual bowls with 1/3 cup each sugar snap peas, shredded carrots, cucumber, and red cabbage. Top with radishes, sliced scallions, sesame seeds, cilantro and lime wedges to squeeze over top. Drizzle dressing overtop and enjoy!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days in a covered container.
Instructions
In blender, add ingredients and blend until smooth, adding a little extra milk as needed.
Serve with optional toppings and eat with a spoon or sip with a straw. Enjoy often!
Makes 1 generous, or 2 small, servings.
Instructions
Saute carrots: In skillet heat oil over medium, add the carrots, garlic, caraway seeds and season with salt and red pepper. Cook until carrots have softened, about 4 minutes. Let cool.
Prep bread: Toast or grill your bread, or leave as is.
Assemble: Layer both sides of bread with hummus (I do both sides because I have hummus love). Add carrot mixture, top with cilantro and season with black pepper. 
Serves 2
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Roast: Prepare cauliflower and chickpeas, toss together in a large roasting pan with 2 tablespoons of olive oil and dash or two of salt. Roast for 35 – 40 minutes, stirring every 15 minutes or so.
Quinoa: In a medium pot, add quinoa, 1 3/4 cups water and a pinch of salt. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove cover and let set 10 minutes, fluff with a fork.
Dressing: In a small bowl, prepare your mustard dressing and set aside. You may like to double this recipe and have some to drizzle over top your plated serving.
Assemble: Once roasting is done, let cool a few minutes. While still warm, place cauliflower and chickpeas in a medium size bowl, add dressing and toss. Add in parsley last or top your portion when before serving. Tastes great warm or at room temperature.
Serve cauliflower and chickpea mix over a nice bed of quinoa along with lemon wedges.
Serves 3 with leftover quinoa.
Instructions
Pasta: Cook your pasta according to package. Drain and place back in pot, set aside.
Vegan Cheese Sauce: In a small/medium saucepan, heat oil over medium heat, add flour and whisk to incorporate. Continue whisking and cook for 2 minutes, mixture will be bubbly. Add milk slowly, whisking constantly. Add the garlic powder, chili & chipotle powder and salt. Turn heat to low and cook until sauce thickens, about 8 minutes, stirring frequently. Remove from heat. Stir in nutritional yeast. Stir until everything is incorporated and smooth again. Taste for flavor.
Assemble: Add sauce and pasta together, tossing well, add more milk as needed and serve right away.
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Pesto: Place pepitas in your food processor and pulse a few times until seeds are broken down fairly well. Add remaining ingredients and blend until well combined and fairly smooth, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Add water, 1 tablespoon at a time, to thin if needed (no need to add more oil unless you want). Taste for flavor and season to taste. Set aside.
Ribbons: Peel the outer layer of your carrots and discard. Using the peeler, ribbon the carrots. Wash your zucchini, cut the ends off and using a mandolin, or tool of choice, ribbon the zucchini. You can just as well julienne your carrots and zucchini with a julienne tool or by hand if you would rather have thinner strands.
Combine: In a medium size bowl, place carrots and zucchini, add a few spoonfuls of pesto and mix to combine. You will have pesto leftover unless you really love the stuff and use it all!
Serve: Plate your ribbons, top with a sprinkle of pepitas and a nice dusting of almond parmesan. For a little extra color you could add some red pepper flakes to the top.
Serves 2
Store leftover pesto in an airtight container in the fridge for up to a week. Use the pesto for pasta, as a dip for vegetables, as a spread for sandwiches, thin it out with water or lemon juice and make a dressing for salads, etc. Lots of ways to use pesto.
NOTES:
Use almonds in place of pepitas if needed. I used raw pepitas instead of toasting them.For the garam marsla, if pairing this with regular pasta I would leave it out. It pairs well with the freshness of the carrot & zucchini ribbons. Also, I found that it tasted fine with almond parmesan. But like I said earlier, I can eat some really unusual combinations. If you feel like experimenting, try it out…if in doubt, skip it.
Instructions
Spanish quinoa (serves 6):
In medium size pan or skillet, heat oil over medium high heat, add onion, optional bell pepper and cook for 3 minutes, add quinoa and garlic, cook another 5 minutes or so stirring frequently until quinoa starts to get toasty and turn slightly golden. 
Add water, tomato paste, oregano, salt + pepper, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes. 
When done, remove cover, fluff with the a fork, and let set for 15 minutes to absorb the rest of the liquids. Taste for seasonings before serving.
Nut meat (makes 6 tacos): 
Place all ingredients in food processor/blender and pulse until you have chunky crumbles. Don’t over process or you will have a nut mushroom pate, which wouldn’t be so bad but we want a crumbly effect here. For visual steps, see this Walnut Meat recipe.
Optionally, heat the nut meat on low just until warm in a small saucepan. You don’t want to overheat or the mushrooms will cook too much, just slightly warm it. I find both ways, warm and room temp, to be just as appealing. Makes enough for 6 tacos.
Warm your tortillas on the griddle or skillet for 30 seconds per side.
Serve: Put your plates and tacos together as you wish! You may find that you end up combining the black bean salsa with the Spanish fried quinoa. You may also find yourself making tacos out of both of those side dishes as well. However you craft your plate, enjoy!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 475 degrees F.
Bell Peppers: Wash and dry bell peppers, slice in half, remove stems and seeds, place on a rimmed baking sheet cut side down. Bake in oven for 40 minutes, turning the baking sheet 180 degrees after 20 minutes. Steam peppers in an airtight container for at least 20 minutes. Remove skin. For a more detailed overview of roasting peppers follow this link: How To Roast Peppers
Pasta: Fill a large pot with water and bring to a boil. Cook pasta according to package directions. About 3 minutes before the pasta is ready, add peas and finish cooking together. Drain pasta and peas in a colander. Set aside.
Romesco Sauce: In a food processor/high-speed blender, add almonds and pulse or process until roughly chopped. Add in the bell peppers, garlic, broth/water, vinegar, red pepper flakes, and a pinch of salt. Blend until desired consistency. Taste for flavors and adjust as needed. You may find you need a little more salt, especially if you’ve used water instead of vegetable broth.
Combine: Bring the pasta and peas back to the pot they were cooked in. Add the romesco sauce and gently mix until pasta is well coated. Warm mixture over low heat if needed.
Serve with a sprinkle of almond parmesan and chopped herbs of choice. Enjoy!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, you can freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Reheat on the stove until warmed through, adding a splash of vegetable broth to loosen the sauce. Can also be microwaved.
Instructions
Prep: Start with chopping, dicing and mincing the onion, garlic, ginger and serrano chili. This is pretty much the most work you’ll have to do. I grated my ginger using this handy fine grater (affiliate link), but simply mincing your ginger is great too.
Saute: In a dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat and saute the onions until translucent, add the garlic, ginger, chili and spices and saute for 30 seconds to 1 minute.
Cook: Add the chickpeas, tomatoes, cinnamon stick and 1/4 cup of water, turn heat to low and simmer at a gentle boil for 15 – 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a little more water if you prefer a saucy chickpea stew. Remove cinnamon stick and stir in the lemon juice.
Serve: Serve with grain of choice and optional garnish. And for scooping and soaking, this easy Vegan Naan is perfect!
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease a 9 x 5 loaf pan.
In a mixing bowl, add the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt, stir to combine.
Add in the applesauce, orange juice and optional vanilla, mix until flour is incorporated, don’t over mix, stir in the cranberries and optional orange zest, give a few extra stirs.
Pour batter into prepared loaf pan, strategically arrange a few more cranberries on top, and place on center rack in the oven, bake for  50 – 55 minutes.
Remove from oven, let cool and enjoy.
Store, covered, on the counter for up to 3 days, or keep in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. Also, you can freeze your bread, stored in a freezer safe container for up to 2 months, let thaw in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Heat oil over medium heat, add mushrooms and season with a pinch of salt. Simmer mushrooms, stirring occasionally, until liquid is almost evaporated, about 15 minutes.
Add flour, continue cooking and stirring for about 3 – 5 minutes, at least until the flour has been absorbed and not white anymore. Add 1 cup of broth, stirring/whisking briskly until incorporated and liquid has thickened, there should be no flour lumps, about 5 minutes. 
Slowly pour in the remaining broth and mix thoroughly. Season with black pepper and thyme. Simmer at a gentle boil over medium-low until thickened, about 20 minutes, stirring often. Gravy will thicken upon standing. Taste for flavor, adding more salt and pepper as needed.
Makes about 4 cups.
Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. To freeze, let the gravy cool and store in an airtight container in the freezer for up to 2 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator and reheat in a saucepan, whisking to recombine.
NOTES:
If you find the gravy isn’t thickening up, mix 1 tablespoon oil with 1 heaping tablespoon flour, mix well until completely blended, add to simmering broth, stirring until dissolved, continue cooking until thickened.
I used mushroom gravy when making this recipe which gave it a rich brown color, if using vegetable broth your gravy may be lighter in color.
Make this gluten free by using gluten free flour.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper, silicone mat, or lightly grease with oil.
Mix: In a medium size bowl, mash bananas to a fairly smooth consistency (a few small chunks is ok). Add oats and mix well. Add in chocolate chips, mix again. If the mixture is really wet, add a few tablespoons of oats (see notes).
Scoop: Using a 1 tablespoon measuring spoon or trigger scooper, scoop heaping scoops of mixture and place on cookie sheet. Leave in a dome shape or flatten it out a bit with your fingers to make a flatter shape. Depending on the size you scoop, you should get anywhere from 12 – 16 cookies.
Bake: Place in oven, on the center rack, and bake for 15 – 20 minutes. If you make your scoops dome shaped and on the larger side, bake for 20 – 25 minutes. Remove from oven, let cool a few minutes before eating.
Makes about 12 – 16
Store: Leftovers can be kept loosely covered and eat within a 1 – 2 days (if they last that long!).
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, mix together the dressing ingredients. Add water, a teaspoon or two at a time, as needed to create desired consistency. Taste for flavor adjusting as needed. If dressing becomes to thin, add a bit more peanut butter to thicken. Set aside.
Salad: Create your salad by adding a few large handfuls of salad mix to your serving bowl—top with diced apple, handful of coconut bacon, currents and slivered almonds. Drizzle ginger peanut dressing over top and enjoy.
Serves 1
Instructions
Assemble: In a medium bowl, add the tomato, onion, jalapeno, cilantro. Squeeze the lime over top and add a sprinkle of salt. Toss to combine.
Serve at room temperature or chilled.
Makes about 4 1/2 cups.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days in a covered container.
NOTES:
As always feel free to adjust any of the ingredients to suit your taste.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Prepare a baking sheet with coconut oil, parchment paper, or use a non-stick mat.
Mix: In a large mixing bowl beat together the coconut oil, vanilla, and maple syrup until smooth. Add in the almond flour, sugar, cinnamon, baking powder & soda, and salt, mix to combine. Toss in the pecans and chocolate chips, and mix again.
Shape: Scoop rounded tablespoons and roll dough into 1 inch balls, firmly but gently press into a ball, and place on the cookie sheet. Using your fingers, gently press down to slightly flatten. Sprinkle with coarse sea salt. 
Bake: Place in the oven on the center rack and bake for about 20 minutes. They may look like they need to cook more but don’t worry once they cool they will darken slightly, harden a little and be a perfect cookie. Let cool and enjoy!
Makes 16 to 18 cookies
Store: Cookies can be stored on the counter for up to 5 – 6 days or kept in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks. To keep longer, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Place ingredients in blender and blend until smooth and creamy.
Serve topped with optional garnish.
Enjoy and savor each sip!
NOTES:
If using unsweetened coconut milk, add 1 – 2 dates, chopped and seeds removed, to sweeten. Or add a drizzle of pure maple syrup, about 1 teaspoon, before blending.
Instructions
Quinoa: In small pot over medium high heat, add broth/water and quinoa, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Once done, remove cover, fluff with a fork and let set for another 15 minutes to cool and absorb remaining water.
Flax egg: While the quinoa is cooling, start your flax egg by mixing the ground flax seed with 3 tablespoons water in a small bowl and set aside to thicken, at least 10 minutes for best results.
Rémoulade: Place all ingredients in a blender/food processor, except the dill, and blend until smooth (the Nutri Bullet is a perfect tool for this job). If your mixture is too thin add a few cashews and blend again, and if too thick add 1 tablespoon water at a time until desired consistency. Stir in the dill by hand. Taste for seasoning adding more of whatever you like. Cover and keep at room temp or place in the refrigerator until ready to use (I served mine at room temp). This can also be made a couple days in advance and kept in the refrigerator (will stay fresh for up to 5 – 6 days).
Quinoa Cakes: In a medium bowl, combine quinoa, flax egg, flour, onion, celery, bell pepper and garlic. Mixture should be moist enough to stick together. Add additional flour or water, 1 -2 tablespoons at a time if needed to adjust consistency. Taste for seasoning. Scoop up 1/4 – 1/3 cup of mixture and form into a ball, pack them well while forming into a ball. Gently flatten to about 1/2 inch and pinch any cracks that appear on the sides and tops. (Patties can be made a day in advance and kept in the refrigerator.) Be patient and rinse your hands after forming each patty, it will be a bit messy for the first few until you get the hang of it.
Cook: Preheat oven to 200 degrees. In a skillet or shallow pan, heat 1 1/2 teaspoons oil over medium heat, add 4 patties and cook, until nicely browned on each side, about 4 – 5 minutes per side. Repeat until all patties are cooked. Keep finished quinoa cakes on a baking sheet in the preheated oven until all cakes are cooked. (see notes for baked option)
Serve the quinoa cakes with a nice dollop of rémoulade and pair with a steamed vegetable of choice. Would be great with vegan mac and cheese, coleslaw or sweet corn & arugula salad too.
Makes 8 – 9 patties, serves 4
Store: Patties can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Prepare your zucchini noodles julienne style or spiralized. Or alternately, cook your pasta of choice, about 8 ounces.
For the puree, place all ingredients into a food processor/blender and process until creamy, stopping every so often to scrape the sides as needed.. Taste for flavor adding anything extra you might like.
Toss zucchini pasta with avocado-cucumber puree and a handful of arugula or sprouts. Serve with tomatoes, peas shoots, jalapenos, lemon zest, lemon wedges and fresh cracked pepper. 
Serves 2
NOTES:
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: For making zucchini noodles I recommend using a julienne tool to make straight noodles or you can spiralize using a spiralizer (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Instructions
Cube Squash: Slice off the very top and bottom, discard. Using a vegetable peeler, remove the hard outer skin. Cut the butternut squash in half, remove seeds and cut squash into 1/2″ cubes (the smaller the cubes are the quicker they will cook).
Saute: In a large dutch oven or stock pot, heat oil/water over medium high heat, add onions and saute for about 5 minutes, or until soft. Add sage and squash and cook 3 minutes more, stirring occasionally. 
Simmer: Add lentils, broth and salt & pepper, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for about 30 minutes, until squash is fork tender and lentils are soft.
Puree: Once ready and slightly cooled, puree soup using your preferred method. Use an immersion blender and puree soup right in the pot until desired consistency. Or you can puree in your blender or food processor, this method may take two or three batches to complete. Add extra liquids as needed for desired thickness.
Serve: Ladle into individual serving bowls and top with pine nuts and chopped sage if you like, fresh cracked pepper would also be great.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating. Reheat on the stovetop over low until warmed through.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a small pot, add quinoa and water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove lid and let rest for 10 minutes, fluff with a fork.In a small bowl, combine the dressing ingredients and mix well.
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the ingredients for the citrus dressing. Set aside until ready to serve.
Salad: In a large bowl add the spinach, quinoa, blueberries, strawberries and slivered almonds. Pour dressing over top and toss well to coat.
Serve at room temperature or chilled in individual bowls with optional sliced avocado and a little extra slivered almonds on top.
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in a covered container.
Instructions
In a small bowl, whisk together the ingredients for the dressing. Alternately you can use a small blender to combine until smooth. Set aside.
In a large bowl, toss the cabbage, carrots, radishes and sesame seeds together with the dressing. You can also omit the sesame seeds and serve them as a garnish as the pictures above.
Serve immediately if you like it very crunchy or let it sit covered in the refrigerator for a few hours for a more slaw-like texture and to let the flavors mingle a bit. Both ways are great. Depending on how you are serving the dish it can be served at room temperature or cold.
Serves two generously or four as small sides.
NOTES:
Thinly sliced green onions would also be a great addition to this salad.
To make soy free, use chickpea or brown rice miso.
For an oil free slaw, omit the oil.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Squash: Wash delicata squash, cut ends off, slice in half lengthwise and scrape seeds out with a sharp-edged spoon. Lay squash cut side down and cut into 1/4 inch slices. Toss with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Using a rimmed baking sheet lined with a silpat, parchment paper or lightly greased, lay pieces in a single layer and lightly sprinkle with mineral salt. Cook for 40 minutes stirring once or twice.
Candied Nuts: In a medium bowl, toss the nuts and cranberries with a glug of maple syrup and dash or two of the optional cinnamon. Place mixture on a small rimmed baking sheet that has been lined or lightly greased. Add to the oven with the squash for the first 10 – 15 minutes of baking stirring after 10 minutes. Remove, let the nuts harden.
Vinaigrette: In a small bowl combine the dressing ingredients and mix well.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl combine the leafy greens, onion, slightly cooled squash, cranberry/nut mixture and dressing, toss well. Add in cooked grain of choice and gently toss again.Season with salt and pepper.
Serve warm or at room temperature, can also be served chilled.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored covered in the refrigerator for 3 – 4 days.
Instructions
Place ingredients in blender, except for the cherries, and blend until smooth (if using all fresh fruits, you may want to add 1/2 cup or so of ice cubes along with the water or milk, or use it in place of some of your liquids). 
Pour into serving glass, top with optional toppings, and enjoy.
Makes just over 2 cups. 
Serves one generously.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a pot, skillet, baking sheet, or baking dish with parchment or foil.
Sauce: In a small bowl, whisk together the tahini, lemon juice, garlic powder, cumin, salt, and water. Add more water as needed to thin. Set aside. Taste for flavor before using.
Trim cauliflower: Turn the cauliflower so the stem is facing upward. Cut the stem straight across removing any bulky stems. I like to leave some of the stems and leaves when possible, but feel free to completely cut them away. Cutting them away will make it easier to coat the inside, but if leaving a few leaves make sure there are a few holes to drizzle the tahini sauce through.
Coat bottom: Drizzle a few tablespoons of tahini sauce in and around the underside of the stem area. If leaves are still attached, make sure to get into the holes to coat the inside of the cauliflower head.
Coat top: Place the cauliflower, stem down, into the pot. Drizzle the top of the cauliflower with ¼ cup of tahini sauce and brush to coat the entire head, adding more as needed. Top with a light sprinkle of salt.
Roast: Cover the pot and place in the oven on the middle rack for 25 minutes. Remove cover and roast for 25 – 30 minutes. If you prefer more charring, place under the broiler for the last 5 minutes. Let cool a few minutes.
Transfer: Carefully lift up the cauliflower using two large forks and place on a plate or platter (or slice and serve from the pot). Top with parsley. Slice into serving portions with a knife. It should be tender enough to slice with ease.
Serve with remaining tahini sauce and chopped parsley.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in an airtight container. For longer storage keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Reheat from frozen or thawed in the microwave or oven.
Instructions
Noodles: If using chuka soba or chow mein noodles, bring a pot of water to a boil, add noodles, reduce heat to medium and cook for 4 minutes. Drain, rinse and set aside. If using other noodles, cook as directed on package.
Stir-fry sauce: In a small bowl, whisk together the ingredients for the sauce, set aside.
Tempeh + onion: In a large wok, heat olive oil over medium to medium-high heat, add tempeh, crumbling it between your fingers, and onion, cook 2 minutes. 
Remaining veggies: Add the celery, cabbage, carrot, and pour 3/4 of the sauce over top. Stir-fry, mixing well, for another 5 – 7 minutes, stirring occasionally until cabbage has shrunk down and softened. 
Add noodles: Add the noodles and remaining sauce to the veggies, toss to coat, continue cooking until noodles are warmed through. Season to taste with more tamari or other seasonings.
Serve: Serve warm in individual bowls and top with optional scallions, red pepper flakes and cilantro. Sesame seeds and/or chili sauce (sriracha) would also be great!
Serves 4 generously, or 6 – 8 smaller portions
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container. For longer storage, keep leftovers in the freezer for up 2 – 3 months in freezer safe containers. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Stir fry sauce: In a small bowl, whisk together the tamari, maple syrup, water, rice vinegar, ginger, garlic, cornstarch and red pepper flakes. Set aside.
Noodles: Cook your ramen noodles according to package and set aside.
Assemble: In wok or pan, heat oil or water on medium-high heat, add the vegetables and basil, stir fry for 2 – 3 minutes, add the noodles, pour the stir fry sauce overtop and cook for another 3 – 4 minutes, spices, stirring frequently. Season to taste with more tamari, rice vinegar, etc.
Serve: Place in serving dish and garnish with sesame seeds, sliced scallions, and more bean sprouts.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven or pot, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion and garlic, saute for 5 minutes. Add the thyme, red pepper flakes, salt and pepper, stir and cook 1 minute more until fragrant.
Add remaining ingredients: Add the pumpkin, red lentils and liquids, bring to a boil, cover, to low and simmer at a gentle boil for 20 minutes. Soup is ready when pumpkin is fork tender and lentils are soft.
Puree: Remove soup from heat, let cool a few minutes. Using an immersion blender (or stand blender), puree the soup to desired consistency. Feel free to leave it a little chunky! Stir in the fresh parsley or use it as a garnish when serving.
Serve: Spoon into serving bowls and top pumpkin seeds, red pepper flakes, pepper and more fresh parsley.
Enjoy your soup with a chunk of homemade Artisan Bread or Vegan Naan Bread for soaking up the juices. For gluten free, try this easy Socca flatbread made with chickpea flour.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator, in a covered container, for 5 – 6 days. To store longer, freeze portions in freezer safe containers or baggies for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before heating.
Reheat: Warm the soup on the stovetop over low heat until warmed through or warm in the microwave at 30 second intervals, stopping to stir each time.
Instructions
In a large skillet, heat oil or water over medium heat, add the onions, peppers, cumin, smoked paprika, garlic powder and salt, toss to combine.
Add in the mushrooms and saute, gently stirring the mushrooms carefully, until peppers and portobellos are soft, about 10 – 15 minutes.
Smash or slice the avocado. I smashed mine and added the juice of 1 lime and about 2 tablespoons of diced jalapeno and generous pinch of salt.
Layer each tortilla with the mushroom-pepper mix, top with avocado and cilantro. Add a squeeze of lime over top. A little hot sauce would be great too!
Makes 6 tacos, serves 3
Instructions
Blend: Add ingredients to the bowl of a food processor and blend until mixed well and crumbly, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed.
Chill: Place the mixture in the refrigerator for about 20 minutes to let it stiffen up a bit. 
Scoop and roll: Using a 1 tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop up rounded mounds of and roll into 1 inch balls.
Add finishing touch. For a more finished look and to keep the dough from sticking to your fingers, roll the energy bites in shredded coconut or almond flour.
Makes about 20 energy bites
Store: Keep stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to two weeks. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before eating.
Instructions
Prep: Scrub and rinse the carrots well. If the tops are clean-looking, you can leave them on. If not, trim off the very top 1/2 inch or so. If using carrots with the leafy green tops, you can juice the whole thing, but your juice color may change.
Juice according to your equipment and enjoy. 
Store: The juice will keep nicely in an airtight container for up to 48 hours in the fridge but is best fresh within a few hours. Give a good stir before drinking.
Makes about 2 cups. 
Severs 2
Instructions
Cook pasta & broccoli: Cook your pasta according to package and set aside. Steam broccoli using your preferred method. If you like you can cook your broccoli with the pasta. Just be sure you’ve added enough water to the pot. To do this I would suggest adding the broccoli to the cooking pasta 3 minutes before pasta is done. Broccoli is at it’s best when it turns its brightest green.
Cream sauce: In a medium saucepan, heat oil over medium heat, add the flour and whisk until smooth. Continue to cook for another 1 1/2 minutes. Slowly add in the almond milk and continue to whisk until smooth. Add in garlic powder, onion powder and salt to taste. Turn heat to medium low and cook another 8 minutes until sauce thickens, stirring frequently. Remove from heat and add optional nutritional yeast. Stir until well incorporated and taste for flavor adding more salt or garlic/onion powder as needed.
Mix together: Using the pot you cooked the pasta in, toss together the pasta, broccoli and sauce. Serve with fresh cracked pepper. For a little heat, try adding a dash or two of red pepper flakes.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Reheat: Warm leftovers on the stove over low heat, adding a splash of milk for moisture. Alternatively, heat in the microwave.
Mix the dressing ingredients in a small to medium size bowl, add water in small increments until desired thickness/thinness. Next, steam the broccoli, or serve raw. Lastly, toss the broccoli with the dressing, add in the green onions, gently toss again and enjoy often!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, silpat or lightly grease with oil.
Assemble: Add the potatoes, carrots and chickpeas to the sheet pan, drizzle with 1 1/2 tablespoon olive oil and 3/4 of the spices, toss to coat. Arrange the potatoes flesh side down, this will help them get crispy edges.
Roast: Place in the oven for 20 -25 minutes.
Add onion + asparagus: Carefully remove the pan from the oven, push the potato mixture to one side, add the onion and asparagus, add the remaining oil and herb/spice mix, toss to coat.
Continue roasting: Place sheet pan back in the oven and roast for 10 – 15 minutes more. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serve: Place in individual serving bowls and top with parsley sprinkled over top and sliced avocado on the side. Would be great with a serving of quinoa on the side as well, adding more fiber and protein!
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the orange juice, apple cider vinegar, dijon, onion powder, salt and pepper. Set aside.
Salad: Place the prepared apple, beet, carrots, kale and cranberries in a large mixing bowl, pour the dressing overtop and toss to coat.
Serve: Place servings in individual bowls and top with a sprinkle of pepitas or sunflower seeds.
Serves 2 – 3
NOTES:
For cutting the beets and apples, I used this mandoline to cut thin matchsticks. It works perfectly and makes the process easy. There is also a green one that costs a little less, it just doesn’t have the non-slip rubber or groove for placing over bowls.
Instructions
In a blender, place the berries, banana, acai powder, optional protein source and water/milk. Blend until smooth. Add extra water if needed (most likely you won’t need any).
Place in serving bowl and top with the suggested toppings or your favorite assortment.
Serves 1 large or 2 small
Instructions
Soak chickpeas: If starting with dried beans, place the dried chickpeas in a large bowl and fill with fresh purified water. The beans will double in size so be sure to cover and leave plenty of extra water for them to soak up, about 2 to 3 times as much water. Soak for 8 -12 hours. Rinse and drain thoroughly. 
Let beans sprout: Place the chickpeas in a mason jar with a sprouting lid (or sprout them using a colander). Leave the chickpeas anywhere at room temp and rinse and drain them 2 – 3 times a day for 2 to 3 days. If your garbanzo beans are not sprouting, try moving them to a warmer area. Here is a great guide to sprouting garbanzo beans from the Sprout People for reference.
Hummus: Place the ingredients into a food processor or high-speed blender and process until creamy.d You may need to stop every now and then to scrape down the sides. Taste for flavor, adding anything extra you like – garlic, tahini, lemon, spices, or salt. If adding more water, add 1 tablespoon at a time until desired consistency.
Makes about 2 cups
Store: Keep leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Serves 8
Enjoy with fresh sliced veggies or crackers.
Instructions
Place ingredients in your large jar, attach the lid and shake, twist and roll until evenly distributed. If using a large bowl, stir mixture and add to container of choice.
How to eat muesli:
Pour and serve: When ready to serve, add 1/2 – 3/4 cup of muesli to your bowl, add enough milk to cover and let set for about 5 minutes or so, until the oats soften a bit. Add a little sweetener of choice (I use a drizzle of maple syrup) and some fresh berries such as blueberries, raspberries, blackberries. Sliced strawberries and/or bananas would also be great. If you have dried mulberries on hand, throw some in as they taste great! When ready to eat, add a little extra milk as needed. Once you’ve made this a few times, you’ll find your perfect way.
Overnight muesli: Add about 3/4 cup muesli to a mason jar or bowl, top with fruits of choice if you like, and cover with milk. Seal or cover and keep in the refrigerator overnight, or up to 3 days (you can make a few so they’re ready to grab and enjoy, or take along with you). Mix before eating, add a little extra milk as needed (if at all).
Makes about 7 cups serving approx. 9 – 14
NOTES: 
Feel free to add 1/2 cup of flaked or shredded coconut. You can change up the dried fruit by adding dried cranberries, chopped dates, cherries or apricots etc. Add any nuts and seeds you prefer. Slivered almonds are great in the mix. Mix and match as you like making this your own!
If you’re not going to top with any fresh fruit, feel free to add in another 1/2 cup or so of dried fruit of choice. Suggested ratio:
5 cups rolled oats
1 cup mixed nuts & seeds
1 cup mixed dried fruit (pref. unsweetened varieties)
Instructions
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. 
Line a baking sheet with silpat, parchment paper or lightly grease with oil.
Prep potatoes: Add potatoes to the center of a baking sheet, drizzle with oil and toss to coat. Arrange potatoes spread out leaving a little room between potatoes. 
Roast 1: Place in the oven on the center rack and bake for 25 minutes (if using larger potatoes cook 30 – 35 minutes).
Smash: Carefully remove the sheet pan from the oven, using a flat bottom item (I used the bottom of a 1 cup measuring cup) or back of a big spatula, smash potatoes. Smash to about 1/2 inch, a little smaller if you can without them falling apart too much. Gently use a fork to help remove potatoes that may stick to your smasher of choice. It’s ok if they fall apart a little, they should crisp up and stick together once finished. 
Roast 2: Place potatoes back in the oven and continue to bake for an additional 20 – 25 minutes, until edges are deliciously golden and crispy looking. Bake longer if you prefer very crispy potatoes!
Serve: Place potatoes on individual plates and drizzle with sauce and top with greens. Or serve however you like!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Reheat in the toaster oven or oven at 350 degrees until warmed through.
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse the quinoa under cool running water using a seive (I typically skip this step). Add the quinoa and water to a medium size pot, and bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer on low for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover and let rest for 10 minutes. Fluff with fork.
Oranges: Peel the oranges and thinly slice them widthwise 1/4 inch thick. Alternately, just peel the oranges into their natural wedges.
Vinaigrette: In a small bowl, combine the cider vinegar, orange juice, olive oil, minced garlic, and salt and pepper.
Assemble: Using the pot the quinoa was cooked in, or a large mixing bowl, add the quinoa, chickpeas, oranges, cranberries, onion, arugula, mint and parsley, pour the dressing overtop and mix to combine. Season with more salt & pepper to taste.
Serve at room temperature or chilled.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Salad can also be made ahead and travels well!
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven or stock pot, heat oil over medium heat, add leeks and saute until softened, about 5 minutes. Add in carrots, celery, mushrooms, thyme and optional fennel seeds, cook another 4 minutes, stirring frequently.
Add remaining ingredients: Add in the buckwheat groats, broth, lemon juice and salt & pepper, and bring to a boil, partially cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes.
Serve garnished with a sprinkle of parsley and a side of crusty artisan bread or gluten free bread of choice.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, in a covered container. For longer storage, keep in the freezer using freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Blend into flour: Combine oats and almonds in the bowl of a food processor, blend until you get a fairly fine consistency, doesn’t have to be perfect. 
Add remaining ingredients: Add the rest of the ingredients, blend until combined and dough like consistency, about 1 minute, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. If for any reason you added more oats or nuts/seeds and you feel it is too dry, try adding 1 tablespoon of water at a time to get desired consistency. 
Chill: Place mixture in the refrigerator for about 20 minutes or so to help stiffen the dough for rolling.
Roll: Using a 1 tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop up rounded tablespoons of dough and roll into 1 inch balls. 
Finishing touch: Roll the truffles in choice of cacao powder, shredded coconut, cinnamon or white sesame seeds for a more finished look. 
Makes 12 truffles
Store: Keep refrigerated and enjoy within two weeks or so. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Preheat: Heat your skillet on medium heat or griddle to manufacturer’s instructions.
Bread: Slice your loaf of bread into 3/4 –  1 inch thick slices.
Mix: In a flat bottom, shallow medium bowl mash the banana until creamy and fairly smooth. Add the cinnamon, vanilla, optional nutmeg, and milk, stir until combined.
Dip: Using about 1 teaspoon of butter or oil, grease the griddle/skillet (do this each time you add a new batch). Quickly dip bread into the wet mixture and flip to coat the other side (do not let the slices soak, or you may have soggy french toast). 
Cook: Place french toast sliced on the griddle and cook for 3 – 4 minutes on each side, or until golden.
Serve with pure maple syrup and fresh fruit of choice.
Serves 3
Instructions
Stovetop: In large pot, heat oil/water over medium, add onions and saute for 5 minutes. Add the garlic, jalapeno, cumin, oregano, salt and pepper, cook 1 minute more, or until fragrant. Add the pinto beans, tomatillos, hominy and vegetable broth, bring to a boil, cover askew, reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 – 30 minutes. Add lime juice and season to taste.
Instant Pot: Set the Instant Pot to SAUTE, heat the oil/water, add the onion and cook for 5 minutes. Add the garlic, jalapeno, cumin, oregano, salt and pepper, cook 1 minute more, or until fragrant. Add the pinto beans, tomatillos, hominy and vegetable broth. Cover with lid and turn to the lock position. Set the valve to SEALED. Set Instant Pot to HIGH pressure and manually adjust the time to 20 minutes. Let naturally release for 10 minutes, and turn the valve to VENTING to release remaining steam. Add lime juice and season to taste.
Slow Cooker: In the bowl of a slow cooker, place all the ingredients and give a good stir. Cook on LOW for 6 – 8 hours or HIGH for 3 – 4. Add lime juice and season to taste.
Serves 4 – 6
Serve: Ladle soup into individual serving bowls. Garnish with cilantro, avocado (highly recommended) and radish, or any of the optional garnishes.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Prep tofu: If not using one of the tofu’s mentioned above, you’ll want to drain and press your tofu to remove excess water. Simply cut tofu into slabs and place between paper towels or a clean dish cloth. With wrapped tofu laying on a flat surface, place a heavy book/object on top for about 15 minutes or so. Here’s a great tutorial from Olives for Dinner: How to press tofu perfectly in six steps.
Stir-fry sauce: In a small bowl, combine the tamari, water, sweetener and flour. This will be your slurry, ensuring your tofu will be coated nicely.
Cook tofu: Heat oil in a large wok or skillet over medium high. Add tofu and cook, stirring occasionally for about 10 minutes, or until golden on all sides. It doesn’t have to be perfect.
Add remaining ingredients: Add in your slurry mixture, ground pepper, garlic and ginger. It will sizzle at first when adding the liquids. Stir fry another 3 minutes or so, add in hot peppers and scallions. Liquids should start to thicken a bit, cook another 5 minutes or until the scallions are just softened.
Serve: Pair with brown rice, brown rice/quinoa mix, basmati or jasmine rice. Soba noodles would be great too. Add a large handful of chopped cilantro on the side, it will add to the flavors while giving a nice dose of freshness to the pepperiness. If you love cilantro, you will truly appreciate it here!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
In a medium sized mixing bowl, combine the milk, chia seeds, cocoa powder, maple syrup, vanilla and salt, whisk until blended. Be patient, it will take a good minute or so to blend in the cocoa powder.
Cover and place in the fridge to chill. Give a good stir after 30 minutes (this step is very important or you’re pudding will not set properly and you’ll have a soupy mixture), cover again and continue to chill. Stir again after 15 to 30 minutes. Pudding should be thickened and ready to serve within 4 hours, and will be at it thickest after 8 – 10 hours.
Serve as is, or with a few of the following….
banana slices
berries (raspberries, strawberries, blackberries and/or blueberries)
kiwi, pineapple, cherries, or mandarin oranges
cacao nibs, mini chocolate chips, or shaved chocolate
granola
dollop of whipped coconut cream, peanut butter, or non-dairy vanilla yogurt
Serves 4 – 6
NOTES:
As suggested by a reader, try adding a 1/2 – 1 teaspoon cinnamon!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease your loaf pan.
One bowl method: In a medium sized mixing bowl, mash 3 – 4 bananas (about 1 1/2 cups to 1 3/4 cups works well), add oil/applesauce and vanilla extract, mix again. Add the flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder and salt, and mix well, but don’t overmix, just enough until the flour is combined. Batter will be slightly thick and a few lumps is ok. If mixture seems too thick, add milk, especially if using heavier flours such as whole wheat or whole spelt (you’re more inclined to need it).
Pour batter into a greased loaf pan. Bake for about 50 min – 1 hour. Ovens vary, mine usually takes 50 minutes. You can also do the toothpick test in the center of the loaf, if it comes out clean it should be ready. Remove from oven and let cool for 10 min before slicing.
Original method: In a medium/large size bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt, set aside. In a medium bowl, mash bananas. Add the oil, vanilla and bananas to the dry ingredients and mix until combined, do not overmix. If mixture seems too thick, add the almond milk (especially if using heavier flours such as whole wheat or whole spelt, you’re more inclined to need it).
Pour batter into a greased loaf pan. Bake for about 50 min – 1 hour. Ovens vary, mine usually takes 50 minutes. You can also do the toothpick test in the center of the loaf, if it comes out clean it should be ready. Remove from oven and let cool for 10 min before slicing.
Store: Keep covered on the counter for up to 3 days or in the refrigerator up to 1 week. Keep in the freezer for up to 2 months. Thaw the wrapped loaves overnight in the refrigerator. Reheat in the microwave or a toaster oven with a door.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9 x 5 loaf pan lightly with oil.
Mix: In a large mixing bowl, add flour, cinnamon, baking powder & soda, and salt, mix well with a large slotted spoon or fork. In a small bowl, combine the sugar, milk, and oil, mix well to help the sugar dissolve. Mash the bananas. Add the wet mixture and bananas to the dry ingredients, mix until just combined. Fold in the carrots.
Bake: Pour batter into prepared loaf pan and bake for 50 – 55 minutes on the middle rack, rotate pan halfway through.
Let cool for 10 minutes, remove from pan and let cool completely. 
Serve warmed or at room temperature. Slices pair nicely with a slather of this Cashew Sweet Cream.
Store covered on the counter for up to 3 days or in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. Keep in the freezer for up to 3 months – place completely cooled loaves in freezer containers or bags. Thaw the wrapped loaves overnight in the refrigerator.
Serves 9
Instructions
Start yeast: In a large bowl, pour warm water and sugar, stir to mix, sprinkle with yeast and let sit for 5 – 10 minutes, yeast should become foamy. Alternatively, use the bowl of food processor or stand alone mixer, fitted with a dough attachment. Also, instead of using a spoon to mix, use a hand blender with dough attachment.
Make dough: Add 2 cups flour to yeast, mix until combined. Add salt and rest of flour, mix until combined, about 60 – 90 seconds. If using processor or mixer, beat on medium-low until dough pulls away from the sides of the bowl, about 1 1/2 minutes. If dough is too dry add more water 1 tablespoon at a time and if dough is too wet, add more flour 1 tablespoon at a time (this may all depend on weather conditions). Transfer to a lightly floured board and knead about 3 minutes, or until somewhat smooth.
Let dough rest: Sprinkle the top of the dough with a little flour and cover with a kitchen towel. Let rest for about 10 minutes, up to 1 hours. 
Heat oven to 425 degrees. 
Grease baking sheet with olive oil, or line with parchment or silicone mat and lightly grease (this ensures your pretzels don’t stick), set aside.
Roll dough: Knead the dough three to four times, slice in half using a sharp knife or pizza cutter. Roll and shape each half into a log, about 10 inches long. Cut 1 inch pieces.
Baking soda bath: Fill a large pot (at least 4 quart) with 2 inches of water (about 8 – 10 cups). Bring to a boil. Add baking soda, it will foam up so be gentle when adding. Reduce to medium; place half of the bites in the water and poach for 30 seconds. They will sink and rise, once risen they should be ready. Use a slotted spoon to transfer pretzel bites to baking sheet. Continue until all pretzels are poached.
Bake: Using a silicone brush, coat the pretzel bites with olive oil or vegan butter, and add a sprinkle of salt over top. Bake until golden brown, 12 – 16 minutes (oven may vary).
Makes about 18 – 20 pretzel bites
Pretzels are best when eaten right away or the same day.
Serve plain or with your favorite accompaniment. I used dijon and whole grain mustard.
Store: You can keep leftover pretzels at room temperature, lightly covered, for up to 3 days. They may soften after storing.
Instructions
Noodles: Use a spiralizer to create the ‘noodle’ effect, or you can julienne them. Both ways are great but I do highly recommend the spiralizer if you intend on making raw ‘noodles’ often. It’s really fun and easy to use.
Pesto: Cut zucchini into 1-inch chunks. Steam chunks over boiling water for about 3 minutes, or until just tender when pierced with a sharp knife. I kept mine a little stiff, I wanted this to be as raw as possible.
Place all ingredients in food processor/blender and process until finely chopped.
Serve: Mix your ‘noodles’ with the pesto and serve with halved cherry tomatoes and a sprinkle of almond parmesan.
Instructions
Marinate the kale: Remove the stems from the center of the kale leaves, as least the thickest parts. Julienne kale leaves and place in a medium size bowl, add lemon juice, mix to coat the leaves and let set while you prepare the rest of the ingredients. The lemon juice will help soften the kale leaves. Toss every few minutes or so.
Dressing: In a small bowl, add the ingredients for the vinaigrette. Whisk together until emulsified. It usually takes me about one minute, set aside.
Assemble: Once you’ve prepped your other ingredients you’re ready to assemble your salad. In a serving dish, add kale and top with bell pepper, onion, cucumber, tomatoes, olives and chickpeas. Add your vinaigrette over top and a dollop of hummus anywhere you like.
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Layer the bottom slice with the curried chickpea salad, top with cilantro sprigs, or just the leaves, and greens of choice. Add top slice to sandwich, cut in half or eat as is.
Alternatively, try using this salad to make lettuce wraps too.
Instructions
Place lavash bread (or tortilla) on a flat surface, spread 1/4 cup hummus over 2/3 – 3/4 of the wrap, leaving an inch on both ends. Layer with veggies. Wrap one end up, over, and roll.
Slice in half, and enjoy now or store for later.
Makes 3 wraps
Store: Wraps can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 –  3 days in covered containers.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Mix together the ricotta and spinach.
Place 2 cups of pasta sauce in the bottom of a baking dish.
Fill each tube with the spinach ricotta mix using a gallon ziplock bag with corner cut or piping bag.
Place filled shells in the baking dish and top with the remaining sauce.
Cover and bake for 40 minutes. Uncover and bake 5 – 10 minutes more. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 – 7 days. 
Freezing for later: Make as directed and store in a freezer safe container that’s sealed well. Store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. When ready, bake from frozen as instructed, adding an extra 10 minutes to the cooking time.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Pasta: Cook pasta shells according to package directions.
Ricotta Stuffing: Combine the cashew ricotta with the spinach, set aside.
Prep the baking dish: Pour the entire jar of pasta sauce into the bottom of a 9 x 13 inch baking dish, spreading evenly to all edges. Alternately, pour half the pasta sauce, fill with stuffed shells, and pour the other half over top.
Stuff Shells: Scoop out rounded tablespoon of the spinach-ricotta and stuff each of the pasta shells, placing them in the baking dish. (I was able to get 3 rows of 6, your results will vary depending on your baking dish.)
Bake: Place baking dish, covered, in the center of the oven for 15 minutes, sauce should be bubbly. Remove cover, reduce heat to 375 degrees F. and cook for 10 – 15 minutes more.
Serve with fresh chopped herbs of choice and a good dusting of almond parmesan.
Serves 6 (3 shells per serving)
Store: Cooked, or leftover, stuffed pasta shells can be stored in the refrigerator, in an air-tight container, for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Wash and dry your squash. Trim ends off. Cut squash in half lengthwise, scrap out seeds and cut into 1/4 – 1/2 inch thick slices.
Roast your squash 1 of 2 ways:
 Oven: Preheat oven to 500 degrees f. . Place squash on baking sheet, or two if needed, and use just enough oil to lightly coat squash on both sides. Spread squash in an even layer so as to not touch. Sprinkle with mineral salt. Bake for 10 minutes. Remove from oven, using tongs or spatula flip squash over and bake another 8 – 10 minutes, or until both sides are nicely browned (your oven may vary).
 Broiler: Set broiler to medium. Place squash on a baking sheet, use just enough oil to lightly coat squash on both sides. Spread squash in an even layer so as to not touch. Sprinkle with mineral salt. Place under broiler and cook for about 6 minutes. Flip squash over using tongs or spatula, bake another 2 – 4 minutes, or until both sides are nicely browned. Once you flip be sure to keep an eye on them so they don’t burn and overcook. (This method may take 2 or 3 batches to complete depending on the size of your broiler)
Serve with sriracha. Feel free to use any condiment you like.
Serves 4
NOTES:
These won’t be crispy but they will be delicious!
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: For roasting the squash fries I lightly oil my favorite half sheet sized rimmed baking sheet (affiliate link). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials!
Instructions
Place tofu on several layers of heavy-duty paper towels or dish cloth, let stand 20 minutes. Cut into 1/2-inch cubes.
Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add tofu and dash of garlic powder, saute 3 minutes, add tamari and sesame seeds, cook another 2 minutes or so, until tofu is lightly golden on each side. Remove tofu from pan and set aside.
In same pan over medium heat, add quinoa and cook 3 minutes, stirring frequently. Add broth and salt, bring to boil. Cover, reduce heat to low and simmer 15 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover, add tofu but do not stir, and let set 10 min to soak up the rest of the water. Add onions and fluff everything together with a fork or spoon.
Serve with a side of steamed broccoli. Top with a little extra tamari and sesame seeds, plus a little fresh cracked pepper if you like.
Serves 4
NOTES:
Planning ahead, if you’re gone for the day but want to make this at night. Drain tofu and let it set in the fridge between heavy duty paper towels or dish cloth, it will be ready when you get home so you can have a meal within 30 min or so.
Instructions
In a small mixing bowl, combine the dressing ingredients and set aside.
Mix kale, carrots, bell peppers, and dressing together. Let set for about at least 30 minutes to an hour at room temp or in the refrigerator. This will help reduce the toughness and bitterness. Just before serving, toss in the sunflower seeds and hemp hearts and give a good stir.
Serve in individual bowls topped with more cranberries and seeds as desired. If you don’t have time to let the kale marinate with the dressing, the salad will still be great!
Serves 2
NOTES:
Use orange, lemon, lime and/or grapefruit as your citrus juice. Mix and match your citrus flavors using whatever you have on hand or is available.
Make this a creamy dressing by adding 1 – 2 tablespoon tahini when mixing the dressing. For variation try using this Creamy Poppy Seed Dressing.
The dijon is optional, I found that I preferred it with a small amount. Try it both ways and see what you think.
Instructions
Saute onions: Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a medium pan over medium high heat, add sliced onion and cook, stirring occasionally until golden around the edges and tender, about 5 – 7 minutes keeping an eye on the last 2 minutes so they don’t over char on the edges. Set aside.
Preheat griddle: Heat your griddle over medium high. Depending on what type of griddle you are using, you may want to lightly grease it. I used a cast iron griddle and didn’t grease mine. 
Assemble sandwiches: Layer both inside slices of bread with 2 tablespoons each of hummus. Add a layer of sautéed onions, then sliced tomato, arugula and a sprinkle of salt & pepper. Add top slice of bread and gently press down. 
Grill: Drizzle or brush olive oil on the top. Place oiled side on griddle and cook for about 2 – 3 minutes, or until golden (times may vary, check periodically so the bread doesn’t burn). Before flipping, drizzle or brush the top with olive oil. Using a good size spatula, flip and cook for another 2 -3 minutes until bread is golden once again and sandwich is warmed through.
Slice and devour!
Serves 2
Pairs well with seasonal fresh fruit or homemade baked potato chips.
Instructions
Start by toasting your bread, or leave untoasted. 
Add a nice layer of hummus to both inside slices of bread. Layer with the tomato, avocado, sprouts/leafy greens. cucumber, red onion (in any way order you like), and sprinkle with a little mineral salt and fresh cracked pepper.
Serves 2
Instructions
Place the frozen fruit, banana, liquids, and chia seeds in the blender cup, attach lid, and blend to desired smoothness. Add more liquids as needed.
Makes one generous or two small servings.
Instructions
Soak the cashew in 1 of 2 ways, then drain and rinse well.
Soak cashews covered with 2 – 3 inches of water for 2 – 3 hours, overnight is great too but not necessary for cashews.
For a faster soak, add them to hot water, not boiling, and let soak for 5 – 10 minutes.
In high-speed or personal blender, add all ingredients and blend until nice and creamy, stopping to scrap down the sides every now and then. Add a tad more water as needed to create desired consistency.
Sour cream is best refrigerated for at least an hour before serving, but will do fine if served right away. Sour cream will thicken upon being chilled.
Makes about 1 1/4 cup.  
Store: Will keep in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days in an airtight container. Give a good stir before using.
Instructions
Noodles: Cook your soba noodles according to package, rinse under cool water, set aside.
Stir-fry mushrooms: In a wok or medium pan, heat 1 tablespoon dark sesame oil or 1/4 cup water over medium-high heat, add fresh chopped mushrooms and stir fry for 4 – 5 minutes. Add a little tarmari for a little extra flavor.
Add remaining ingredients: Reduce heat to medium, pour 4 cups of water into the pan, and add the bok choy. Stir in the miso and gently stir to dissolve. Cook over medium to medium-low heat for 10 -15 minutes, or until bok choy is tender, stirring occasionally (don’t let the soup boil). Add the optional tofu to the soup to warm through.
Assemble: In individual serving bowls, add 1/2 soba noodles and top with 1/2 bok choy, mushrooms. and miso broth over top. Top with cubed scallions, cilantro sprigs and sesame seeds.
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Sauce: In a small bowl, combine the ingredients for the sauce and set aside.
Soba noodles: Cook soba noodles according to package. I recommend salting the water well to really bring out the flavor (I would not usually recommend this but if using 100% buckwheat noodles they will benefit from this…at least I think so). Once done, rinse the soba noodles under cool running water to cool them down and stop them from cooking, or they will turn mushy.
Cucumber: In the meantime, prepare your cucumber using a julienne tool. If your cucumber is really long, you can cut it in half before you julienne it if you like. You can also spiralize if you have a spiralizer. Feel free to cut them into 1/4 inch x 1 1/2 inch matchsticks pieces if you don’t have a julienne tool.
Combine: Once noodles are rinsed, return to the pot they cooked in, add the cucumber, cilantro and about 3/4 of the sauce, toss well. 
Serve: In a single serving dish, add 1/2 of the noodle mixture, top with 1/2 of the remaining sauce, and salt & pepper to taste. Add as much lime juice as you like. I especially loved the lime and used about 2 juicy ones for myself.
Serve warm or cold. 
Serves 3, or 2 generously.
Instructions
Chop and prepare your vegetables. For the leeks, once sliced place them in a bowl of cool water swishing them around to rinse away any dirt that is trapped, drain in a colander giving another good rinse, or simply use a colander making sure to break up the rings releasing any dirt in between. The sweet potatoes can either be peeled or left unpeeled.
In a large dutch oven or stockpot, heat oil over medium, add leeks, and saute until softened, about five minutes. Add the sweet potatoes, zucchini, vegetable broth, salt, pepper, and optional turmeric, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, cover and simmer for 30 minutes. Let cool for about 10 – 15 minutes. Using a handheld submersion blender, blend until creamy. Add the cream and blend again. Or you may opt to use a blender or food processor to blend your soup (this will most likely take two batches to complete).
Serve hot or chilled (I especially liked this warm or at room temp).
Makes about 4 servings
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse the quinoa using a fine mesh strainer. In a medium size pot, add the water, quinoa and garlic powder and bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover and let stand for 10 – 15 minutes. Fluff with a fork. Alternatively, you can make this Instant Pot Quinoa.
Assemble: Once quinoa is ready, add in the chickpeas, tomatoes, cucumber, onion, olives and parsley. Mix well. Season with salt, fresh cracked pepper and the juice of 1 large lemon.
Serve on a bed of arugula or as is. Tastes great with pepperoncinis and a little extra lemon juice over top. Add extra virgin olive oil if you wish. Season to taste with salt + pepper.
This dish can be served warm, at room temperature or chilled.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in a covered container for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 325 degrees.
Mix: In a large mixing bowl, combine the tamari, liquid smoke, maple syrup and paprika, making sure to break up any clumps. Add coconut flakes and gently toss making sure to coat each flake well, toss for about 45 seconds or so.
Layer: Using a slotted spoon, scoop seasoned coconut flakes and place onto a lightly greased, or parchment paper lined, rimmed baking sheet in a single layer. The key is to stir during baking to cook evenly. Sprinkle lightly with a bit of mineral salt if desired.
Bake: Place in oven and bake for 15 minutes. Set the timer for intervals of 5 minutes and stir each time making sure to rearrange all pieces by bringing the center flakes to the outside, and the outside flakes to the center for even cooking. If making a double batch and using two cookie sheets, you may even like to change the position of the sheets in the oven after the second interval, moving the top sheet to the bottom rack and vice versa. Remove when coconut has a nice browned and caramelized color.
If for some reason you need to bake longer than 15 minutes, keep close and watch as the coconut bacon can burn very quickly at this point. I really babied my coconut bacon towards the end, it’ll be worth your while if you do too so it doesn’t burn. 
Cool: Let cool, it will get crispy as it cools.
Store: Once completely cooled you can store leftovers in an airtight container and keep in the pantry for up 1 to 2 months. If it softens a bit, re-crisp in the toaster oven on medium for a few minutes, or under the broiler for a few seconds, keeping an eye that it doesn’t burn.
Makes 28, 2 tablespoons, servings.
Instructions
Prep: If using fresh blueberries, rinse well and remove any stems.
Simmer: Place a small saucepan over medium heat, add blueberries, sugar, lemon/orange juice and zest, bring to a simmer, mashing the berries with the back of a spoon.
Cool: Cook for 8 minutes or so, until compote is warm, bubbly and thickened, remove from heat and set aside, about 10 minutes.
Best served warm or at room temperature, but can also be served chilled.
Makes about 2/3 cup.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 7 days. Give a good stir before serving. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in refrigerator before using.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Saute: In a large skillet, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion, garlic and crumbled tempeh, saute for 5 minutes. Add the zucchini, yellow squash, mushrooms, oregano, basil, red pepper flakes, parsley, salt and pepper, and tomato sauce, cook for 2 minutes or so. Add rice and mix to combine. Remove from heat.
Stuff bell peppers: Fill each bell pepper with vegetable mixture, making sure to pack it well. These are hefty stuffed bell peppers. Sprinkle with optional vegan shredded cheese. Cover with lid or tin foil.
Bake: Place dish on the center rake and bake for 35 – 40 minutes. Remove cover and bake for another 5 – 10 more minutes. Cooking times vary, adjust to suit your needs.
Once done, let cool a few minutes and serve with a sprinkle of freshly chopped parsley.
Serves 6, 1 bell pepper per person.
Store: Store leftovers, covered, in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. To keep longer store vegan stuffed peppers in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. To freeze, simply let peppers cool completely and store them in freezer-safe containers. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 
Mix: To a large bowl, add cauliflower and top with oil, sriracha, curry and salt, tossing well to coat.
Layer: Place coated cauliflower in a single layer on a roasting pan lined with parchment paper, silicone mat or lightly greased with oil if needed. 
Roast: Place in center of the oven for 45 minutes, stirring every 15 minutes.
Serve: Enjoy alone as a mono meal, or serve over farro, basmati, jasmine or brown rice, even quinoa would be excellent.
Serves 2 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or silpat. See notes for microwave instructions.
Sweet Potato: Scrub the sweet potatoes to remove any dirt. Using a fork poke holes into the top of the sweet potato so it can release steam while cooking. Place on a lined rimmed baking sheet and bake in the oven for 50 minutes to 1 hour. Let cool a few minutes.
Chili: If making a fresh batch, cook the chili while the sweet potatoes are baking. If using leftovers, reheat the chili 5 – 7 minutes or so before baked sweet potatoes are done.
Assemble: Slice the sweet potato lengthwise along the top where the holes were poked. Gently, and slightly, open the sweet potato and fill with your 3/4 – 1 cup of chili.
Serve: Top with optional garnish and enjoy this delicious hearty meal! Pairs great with Vegan Cornbread or Jalapeno Cornbread Muffins!
Serves 2 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in covered containers in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. Store the chili and sweet potatoes separately or assembled.
NOTES:
Microwave instructions: Place the sweet potatoes on a microwave-safe dish and microwave for 5 – 10 minutes. Add two minutes for each additional potato, rotating them halfway through. Sweet potatoes are done when a fork spears into them easily.
*Chili suggestions: (these are my favorites for stuffing sweet potatoes)
Easy Vegetable Chili (the chili I used)
The Ultimate Tempeh Chili
Easy Three Bean Chili
Quinoa Chili Verde
Instructions
Place ingredients into the blender cup and blend until combined. Pour into individual glasses and top with optional toppings.
Serves 1
Instructions
If baking in the oven, turn oven to 375 degrees F. (It’s helpful to read instructions first before making the patties)
Quinoa: In a medium pot, add the quinoa, water, red bell pepper, corn, onion, garlic + onion powder, thyme, paprika, and salt. Give a gentle stir, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat, and simmer for 15 minutes.
Mash the beans: While the quinoa is cooking, drain and mash the white beans. You can quickly mash the beans in your colander if it has smaller-sized holes (it’ll save you a dish to wash). I mash about 3/4 of the beans, leaving a quarter of the batch whole or somewhat whole.
Add beans and flax meal: Once quinoa is done, remove the cover and stir in the mashed white beans and flax meal, mixing well. Let the mixture cool for 10 – 15 minutes. Taste for flavor – seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and other spices.
Divide and make your patties: I like to pat my mixture into the bowl a little and divide it with a knife into 4 sections, making a plus sign if you will. Take each section and pack it tightly into a ball in the palm of your hands. Flatten with your palms and place on a hard surface. Cup the edges with your palm, tighten them in a bit, and squeeze together any cracks that have formed. Flatten the top to the desired size. Mine were about 1/2 inch thick with a 3 1/2 – 4 inch diameter.
Cook one of two ways:
Oven: In the oven at 375 degrees on a greased or parchment-lined cookie sheet for 30 minutes, turning once after 15 minutes. I also added a sprinkle of himalayan salt to the top before baking.
Stovetop: In a large skillet, heat 1 tablespoon coconut oil or olive oil over medium to medium-high heat. Cook patties for about 4 – 5 minutes on each side. Burgers should be lightly charred, crispy, and browned on the outside with a tender center.
I cooked both ways and had no preference. They both held up well and cooked great.
Makes 4 jumbo patties
Serve on a bun or bed of leafy greens with your favorite toppings!
Instructions
(These instructions are for the no-soak method, if using soaked beans, see notes below)
INSTANT POT (no soak method):
Press the SAUTE setting on your Instant Pot and add 1/4 cup water. When hot, add onion and saute for 4 minutes. Add the smoked paprika and garlic powder, cook for 1 minute, or until fragrant, stirring frequently.
Next add the beans, broth, tomato paste, maple syrup, apple cider vinegar, mustard, bay leaves, ground pepper and salt, gently stir until the tomato paste is dissolved completely and everything is well combined.
Attach the lid, and make sure the vent is in the SEALED position. Push the PRESSURE COOKER button, and manually set at HIGH for 75 minutes. When done, let the steam vent for 20 minutes. Move the vent to open, careful not to burn yourself as there may still be a little steam left. Remove lid and let cool a bit, add salt to taste. Remove bay leaves and taste for seasoning. Transfer beans to a serving dish.
Beans will thicken once cooled. If too thick, add 2 tablespoons of water at a time, mix well, and repeat until desired consistency.
Total cooking time with coming to pressure is about 2 hours and 5 minutes.
SLOW COOKER (no-soak method):
In bottom of slow cooker, add the onion, beans, maple syrup, vinegar, 4 cups water/broth, tomato paste, smoked paprika, garlic powder, mustard, pepper, and bay leaves. Gently stir, until the tomato paste has broken up and dissolved.
Cook on HIGH for 8 – 10 hours. Check periodically, adding up to 1/2 cup more water as needed (I’ve used up to 1 + 1/2 cups for 8 hours). You will also want to check for doneness towards the end so the beans don’t overcook. Add salt to taste.
Store: Keep leftovers in and airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a week. These freeze wonderfully, and will keep for up to 2 months in the freezer. Thaw before reheating.
Serves 6 – 8
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Line a small rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or a silpat. Place nuts in the center, drizzle with maple syrup and using your finger, mix well to coat. Place in a single layer. Cook for about 10 minutes, set aside to cool. Maple will be caramelized on the nuts and your home will be smelling oh so good at this point!
In a small bowl combine the ingredients for the vinaigrette, whisk until well blended adding, add salt and pepper to taste.
Prepare your vegetables, fruit and herbs. Place them in a medium size mixing bowl, add the vinaigrette and mix well.
Serve on a small bed of arugula or spinach, garnish with nuts and a few fennel fronds. Enjoy this nutritious and delicious salad!
Serves 2 – 3
NOTES:
Since red beets tend to be pretty messy to work with, you may like to use golden beets instead. You may also consider using apple cider vinegar in place of the balsamic so the dark color of the balsamic doesn’t discolor your lighter colored beets.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350.
Mix: In a large mixing bowl, add almonds, maple syrup, vanilla and spices, mix well to coat. On a large baking sheet lined with parchment paper or lightly oiled, spread almonds in a single layer, it’s ok if they’re touching each other, add a sprinkle of salt over top.
Roast: Bake on center rake of the oven for 15 minutes, shuffling the almonds around once after 10 minutes. Remove from oven, sprinkle with mineral salt and let cool to harden. They may clump together a bit while cooling but will easily come apart.
Store in airtight container for up to a month.
Instructions
Cook the beans. If making them from scratch they can easily be made ahead of time and then warmed up on the stove before assembling your nacho bowls. Using canned refried beans, see notes.
Prep the salsa. Make the Pico de Gallo and corn salsa. Again, both of these can be made in advance, up to 1 – 2 days.
Prep the remaining produce. Shred the cabbage cabbage and slice the avocado.
Assemble the nacho bowls. To assemble the bowls, arrange the 1/2 cup refried beans, 1/4 pico de gallo, 1/4 corn salsa, small handful of red cabbage, and 1/2 avocado in a serving bowl, top with cheese and place 1 cup of chips on one side of the bowl.
If you prefer to heat in the oven:
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Add the serving to refried beans to individual bowls, top with cheese and add a handful of chips on the side.
Place in oven and bake for 5 – 8 minutes.
Remove from oven, add the salsa, red cabbage and avocado, along with the other garnishing and enjoy!
Makes about 3 – 4 nacho bowls.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil/water over medium heat and saute onions until softened, about 5 minutes. Add garlic powder, oregano, cumin and chili powder, cook for 1 minute more stirring frequently, or just until spices and herbs become fragrant. 
Simmer: Add tomatillos, poblanos, corn, beans, quinoa and vegetable broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 – 25 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover and let rest a few minutes before serving.
Serve in individual bowls topped with garnish of choice. Pairs well with cornbread too, either on the side or broken up in your chili!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer using freezer safe containers or baggies for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Prep: Start by prepping the onion and garlic. Cut the cauliflower into florets, they can be on the large side as you can break it down as it cooks.
Saute: In a heavy bottom pan, heat the butter over medium heat, add the onion and saute for 6 minutes. Add the garlic and cook 1 minute more.
Add remaining ingredients: Add the cauliflower, thyme, salt and pepper, and water/broth.
Simmer: Bring the chunky soup to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, for 20 minutes, or until cauliflower is fork tender.
Add cream + lemon: Stir in the vegan cream or plant milk and lemon juice.
Puree: Once soup is done, let rest for 10 minutes to cool. Using an immersion blender or cup blender, puree the soup until desired consistency. Season with more salt & pepper as needed. Heat over low until warmed through as needed.
Serve: Serve with a few reserved toasted cauliflower pieces, drizzle of vegan cream and/or fresh cracked pepper. For a little heat, add a pinch of red pepper flakes or crushed mustard seeds. Pair with homemade Artisan Bread or soft and chewy Vegan Naan for soaking up the juices.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 days in a covered container. To store longer, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Cook the spaghetti squash using this step by step guide: How To Cook Spaghetti Squash
In a medium size skillet, heat olive oil over medium high heat, add onion and cook until softened, about 5 minutes. Add sliced bell peppers and sausage, cook until bell peppers are softened and sausage is lightly browned around the edges.
While veggies are cooking, warm pasta sauce.
Serve spaghetti squash in serving bowl and top with a little sauce and 1/2 of the vegetable mixture. Add julienned basil over top and enjoy.
NOTES:
If you prefer you can rake and keep the spaghetti squash in its rind, acting as its own bowl. One less dish to wash!
Marinara sauce can be optional, this works just as well without it.
Instructions
Warm broth: In a medium saucepan, place the broth/water and bay leaves, bring to a gentle simmer and keep broth warm.
Saute: In a large stock pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat. Add leeks and cook until just softened, about 5 minutes. Add garlic and rice, toss until rice is nicely coated, about 3 minutes.
Slowly add liquids: Add in warm broth, one 1 cup at a time, the stock should be bubbly. Stir often allowing the broth to be just absorbed. Add in another 1 cup of broth, repeat until 6 cups have been used. Add in peas, and remaining stock and continue cooking, stirring frequently, for another 15 minutes or so, or until the rice is al dente, tender but chewy. The whole process should be about 25 – 30 minutes.
Add Parsley: Once done, the rice and peas should be a little soupy. Remove from heat, stir in the optional nutritional yeast and parsley. Season to taste with plenty of salt and pepper.
Serve topped with a nice dusting of almond parmesan and freshly cracked pepper.
Less Hands-On Method:
After sauteing the leeks and rice as above.
Add at least 7 – 8 cups broth, peas, bay leaves, bring to a boil, cover and cook for 20 – 30 minutes until rice is tender.
Remove from heat add in parsley. Let set a few minutes and serve as desired.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in a covered container. To store longer, freeze in freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Prep tofu: Drain the tofu and place it on its side, cut in half down the long side. Place on a clean dish cloth or between paper towels and gently press to soak up some of the moisture. Dice the tofu into 1/2 inch cubes.
Marinate: In a medium bowl or shallow dish, combine the soy sauce, sambal, sesame oil, garlic, ginger and sweet onions. Toss in the tofu and let rest in for 10 minutes.
Prep the remaining ingredients and assemble your bowls.
Serves  3
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Put the fruit together: Wash, slice, core and dice the apples, into about 3/4 inch pieces. Combine apples, cranberries, lemon juice, sugar and cinnamon. Mix well and layer into a 9 x 9 baking dish, you can also use an oval shaped dish.
Make the topping: In a mixing bowl (shown above), combine oats, flaxseed meal, walnuts/pecans, maple syrup, optional coconut oil (mine is oil-free), vanilla and salt, mix well. Spread oat mixture evenly over the apple and cranberries (shown below), and sprinkle with a little more cinnamon of you like.
Bake for 35 – 40 minutes, or until apples and cranberries are fork tender. Towards the end of cooking, about 20 – 25 minutes in, keep an eye on the topping, if its getting to dark, cover loosely with foil (nothing worse than a burnt crisp). Once done, let cool 5 – 10 minutes before serving.
Serve warm as is, with a scoop of non-diary vanilla ice cream or dollop of whipped coconut cream. Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Prep a baking sheet with parchment paper or silicone mat.
Prep potatoes: Using a sharp knife, food processor attachment or mandolin, thinly slice the potatoes to about 1/16 of an inch. Pat the potatoes dry to remove excess moisture. Toss potatoes with oil and salt in medium size bowl (or you can go to the next step and lightly coat each side with oil while on the cookie sheet using a silicon brush – one less thing to wash this way, which was my way).
Roast: Place the potatoes in a single layer on the baking sheet, spread them out so they don’t tough each other. Place in the oven and bake for 10 minutes. Carefully remove from the oven, turn each chip and bake another 7 – 9 minutes, keep an eye on them towards the end so they don’t overcook. Remove any that seem ready or about to burn completely. Once baked, remove from oven and let cool for 2 – 5 min.
Serves 2 – 4
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or silpat, or lightly grease with oil.
Mash chickpeas: Drain, rinse and pat the chickpeas dry as possible. In a medium size mixing bowl, add chickpeas and mash well with the back of a fork (pulsing in a blender/food processor will also work).
Mix the meatball mixture: Add in the remaining ingredients for the meatballs with the mashed chickpeas. Mix well to combine. Taste and adjust seasoning as needed. If mixture is too wet, add a bit more crushed peanuts (a few tablespoons of breadcrumbs would work great too). I will depend on how wet your quinoa and peanut butter are.
Roll meatballs: Scoop up mixture, using about 1 – 1 1/2 heaping tablespoons. Gently, but firmly press the mixture together and shape into balls, rolling between your palms. Take your time. You should get about 12. The mixture my be sticky and you may need to rinse your hands after rolling 2 – 3 balls, it helps to keep your hands clean.
Bake: Place ‘meatballs’ on the prepared baking sheet. Place on the center rack in the oven for 25 – 20 minutes.
Peanut sauce: In a small bowl, mix the peanut butter, tamari, sugar, lime, garlic and chili sauce. Add hot water a tablespoon or so at a time until desired consistency. If too thin add more nut butter.
Serve: Place lettuce (you may want to double up the lettuce for added strength) on individual serving dishes, top with carrots, meatballs, scallions, peanuts, cilantro and a drizzle of peanut sauce. Enjoy to the fullest!
Serves 3 (4 meatballs per serving)
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together the oil, lime juice, apple cider vinegar, garlic, cumin, chili powder, and pinch of salt. Set aside.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, add the black beans, corn, tomatoes, jalapeno, red onion, avocado, and cilantro. Pour the dressing overtop and toss well to coat. Taste for seasoning.
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Serves 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days in a covered container.
Instructions
In a blender, place berry mix, banana, nut butter, and liquids. Blend until thick and creamy. Pour into a serving dish and top with whatever toppings you like. 
Serves one or two small.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a medium pot, add the water and quinoa, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat, and simmer for 15 minutes at a gentle boil. Turn off heat, remove the cover, and let rest for 10 minutes. Fluff with a fork. Alternatively, use this Instant Pot Quinoa recipe.
Quinoa dressing: In a small bowl or jar, whisk together the lime juice, olive oil, cumin, chili powder, and salt. Season to taste.
Assemble salad: In a large bowl or pot, the quinoa cooked in, toss together the quinoa, corn, beans, tomatoes, onion, and cilantro with the dressing. Season to taste, adding more lime juice and salt or spices to taste.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Keep leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot, heat the water/oil over medium heat, add the tempeh (crumbing between your fingers), onion and bell pepper, saute for 5 – 7 minutes, until onions are soft and tempeh is lightly browned. Add the garlic and cook 1 minute more.
Simmer: Add the diced tomatoes, tomato sauce, oregano, basil, paprika, bay leaves, salt, and red pepper flakes and water/veggie broth. Stir well and bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Add the pasta and cook for 10 more minutes, or until pasta is tender, make sure to stir often so the pasta doesn’t stick to the bottom. Taste for flavor, adding more salt & pepper to taste.
Serve: Serve in individual bowls with a sprinkle of fresh chopped parsley.
Store: Leftovers will keep fresh in the fridge for 4 – 5 days in a covered container. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Roast: Line roasting pan/baking dish with silpat, parchment paper or grease lightly with neutral oil. Add vegetables to roasting pan and toss to coat with olive oil. Arrange vegetables in a single layer (as much as possible), sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste. Roast vegetables until tender and lightly browned, about 45 minutes, mixing once halfway through.
Grain: Start your grain of choice while vegetables are cooking. Quinoa will take about 30 minutes.
Sauce: Prepare your sauce by placing all the ingredients into your food processor/blender, except for the herbs, and process until smooth. Add extra broth as needed to thin. Add in herbs and pulse once or twice. Place sauce in a small saucepan and heat over low heat, uncovered, until warm, stirring occasionally.
Serve: Serve vegetables with grain of choice and a nice helping of sauce over top. Serve warm.
Serves 4 generously.
Store leftovers in refrigerator for up to a week. Leftovers are just as delicious!
Instructions
Walnut Taco Meat:
Place ingredients in food processor and pulse until coarse and chunky. Don’t over blend or it will become a spread, pate like consistency. For pictures on how-to see Walnut Meat (4 ways).
Serves 3
Cilantro Lime Sour Cream:
Soak your cashews in at least 1 cup cool water for 2 – 3 hours or 1 cup hot water for 5 min. Drain well.
Add ingredients to blender or food processor, blend/process, scraping down the sides every now and then until smooth. Add extra water 1 tablespoon at a time if needed. For thicker cream use less water. For a thinner, pourable cream use more water.
Makes 1 cup, serves 8
Assemble taco salad: 
In individual bowls, add romaine, and top with corn, bell pepper, tomatoes, and walnut taco meat. Use as much as you like of anything. 
Serve with a few juicy limes as your dressing. 
Add a dollop of cream or a drizzle depending on how thick or thin your cream is.
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
Instructions
Prep: Leeks, start by removing and discarding the root ends and thick dark green parts. Cut the leeks in half lengthwise and rinse each half under cold water, pulling apart the layers to remove any sand or debris nestled inside, slice the leeks crosswise. Alternatively, slice the leeks, then put in a colander and wash well under running water. Should yield 4 – 5 cups. Cut potatoes into 1/2 inch cubes. Feel free to peel the potatoes or leave the skin on (I left the skin on).
Saute: In a large dutch oven or pot, heat the oil/water over medium heat. Add the leeks and cook, stirring frequently, until soft and wilted, about 10 minutes. Adjust the heat as necessary so as not to brown the leeks.
Simmer: Add the potatoes, broth, bay leaves, herbs, salt to the pot and bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer on low for 15 minutes, or until the potatoes are fork-tender.
Puree: Remove the bay leaves, and puree the soup using a hand-held immersion blender until smooth (or leave a little chunky). Alternatively, use a regular blender to puree the soup in batches. Taste for seasoning. 
Serve: Serve warm with chopped parsley, crispy chickpea croutons, and a side of crusty artisan bread.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Cut squash in half lengthwise. Scoop out seeds with a spoon.
Cook your squash in one of two ways:
 Cook cut side down: Place squash cut side up on rimmed baking dish. Brush each spaghetti squash half with olive oil and season with salt, pepper and herbs of choice. Bake on the middle rack for 35 – 40 minutes.
Cook cut side up: Place cut squash cut side up on rimmed baking dish. Bake on the middle rack for 35 -40 minutes.
Let cool a few minutes. Using a fork, rack or scrape the flesh in a top to bottom motion across the width of the squash.
Serve as is or with an assortment of toppings. Unused portions store great covered in the fridge.
1 spaghetti squash serves 2
Instructions
Stovetop:
Saute + Toast: In medium size pan or skillet, heat oil/water over medium high heat, add onion, optional bell pepper and cook for 3 minutes, add quinoa and garlic, cook another 5 minutes or so stirring frequently until quinoa starts to get toasty and turn slightly golden.
Simmer: Add veg broth, tomato paste, oregano, salt + pepper, give a good stir, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 – 17 minutes.
Let rest: When done, remove cover, fluff with a fork, and let set for 15 minutes to absorb the rest of the liquids. Taste for seasoning.
Instant Pot:
Set Instant Pot to saute for 7 minutes, add oil/water, onion and optional bell pepper, saute for 3 minutes, add quinoa and garlic, cook, stirring frequently for remaining 4 minutes.
Add the tomato paste, just shy of 2 cups of vegetable broth, tomatoes, oregano, salt & pepper. Attach lid and turn to lock. Turn the valve to SEALING. Manually set to HIGH pressure and cook for 1 minute.
Turn valve to VENTING for quick release (or let natural release for 5 minutes), remove lid, turn off heat, fluff with fork and let rest for 10 minutes. Season to taste.
Serve with chopped cilantro overtop for a pop of color and flavor.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Press tofu: Drain tofu, place block on its side and cut in half lengthwise. With halves still together, place tofu flat and cut into thirds on its longest side. You will get six pieces. Place tofu between a double folded kitchen towel and add a heavy book or pot over top to remove excess moisture. Let sit while you prepare the marinade.
Marinate: In a small/medium size baking dish or pan (I used a loaf pan), mix together the lime juice, cumin and salt. Place tofu in mixture and marinate for at least 30 min, and up to 24 hours.
Cabbage slaw: In a medium size mixing bowl, add the cabbage, vinegar, cilantro and salt, mix well and give a toss every now and then. Let set at least 10 min. Making it ahead a day or two is also great!
Grill tofu: Heat grill over medium to medium-high heat. Add enough oil to generously coat the side of the griddle you’ll be using, about two tablespoons. Add a drop of water to the griddle, if it sizzles it’s ready. Place tofu on griddle, cook 3 – 4 minutes per side, or until you get nice grill marks. It helps to press the tofu with the back of a spatula to release excess liquids and aid in grill marks. Once done, set aside.
Serve: Warm tortillas over medium-low heat on a gas or electric burner. Layer each tortilla with on piece tofu, red cabbage slaw and chipotle sauce. Top with optional pico de gallo and a squeeze of lime.
Serves 2 – 3
NOTES:
Don’t be shy with the toppings. Pile them as high as you like!
Instructions
MAKE THE DOUGH:
Mix: In a very large mixing bowl combine the water, yeast and salt. If adding herbs, now is a good time, use a teaspoon or so of your favorite herbs or double if using fresh. Add flour all at once and stir with a wooden spoon. Takes only a minute, if that. No need to knead, just mix. You just want everything mixed well, no streaks of flour left, and you’re done.
Rise: Cover container loosely (I used a towel to cover). Let it rise in a warm area with no draft, may take anywhere from 2 to 4 hours depending on temperatures (ideal temp is 80 – 90).
Separate: Once done, if making the master recipe, pull away 1/4 of the dough and refrigerate the rest to bake later. Store unused dough covered tightly with plastic wrap in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
Shape: Lightly dust your hands and flat surface with flour, or cornmeal, so it won’t stick. Take your dough and place it on the floured flat surface, gently pull the sides of the dough toward the bottom, rotating the dough until you get a roundish shape with a smooth surface. Also, don’t worry if the bottom is a little bunched, it will flatten out upon the second rising.
Rest: Place your dough ball onto a flat surface lined with parchment paper (if not using parchment paper, place on flat surface dusted with cornmeal or flour), and let it rest for at least 30 minutes. No need to cover it. If the dough has been refrigerated, it helps to let it rest a little more, until it’s no longer chilled.
BAKE THE DOUGH:
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Placing a cast iron skillet, pizza stone, roasting pan or shallow fry pan in the oven to get it nice and hot (a baking sheet will be fine too). Let the oven preheat for 30 minutes.
Prep oven and dough: When ready to bake, place a rimmed cookie sheet or small pot with at least 1 cup of water on the bottom rack to steam – this will help the crust get nice and crispy, but it’s fine if you skip it. Line your baking vessel with parchment paper or lightly flour with cornmeal. Dust a little flour on top of your loaf, using a knife slash the top, about 1/4 inch deep, in a cross, tick tac toe or scallop pattern (this helps the bread expand when baking while also giving it a rustic look).
Bake: Place prepped dough in center of baking vessel and place in the oven, center rack, for 30 – 40 minutes, until you get a nice brown crust. Carefully remove from oven, let cool a few minutes and enjoy!
Instructions
Sun-Dried Tomato Hummus:
If using packaged sun-dried tomatoes, soak your tomatoes in water for about 15 minutes to soften, reserve water. If they are super fresh, no need to soak, just chop and use. Use the remaining water as needed when adding it to the hummus. If using bottled in oil sun-dried tomatoes, use as is.
Place all ingredients into food processor/blender, except for the water. Blend until creamy, about 3 minutes or so, adding water as needed to thin. I used about 1/3 cup water as I like my hummus on the moist, thin side.
Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Assemble your wrap:
Lay your lavash bread on a flat surface. Spread a nice layer of hummus over 3/4, top with about 1/2 cup lentils over top, sprinkle with red pepper flakes and mineral salt, add leafy greens over top. Roll gently, but tightly as you can. Slice in half and enjoy!
Store: Wraps can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 days in covered containers. They are best eaten within 24 hours of making.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Prep: Wash kale thoroughly and pat dry. Remove leaves from stem and break up into the medium sized chunks, about 1 – 2 inch pieces.
Add oil + seasoning: Put leaves into a large bowl and drizzle with olive oil. Massage until coated. Add herbs/spices and toss to coat.
Layer: Lay pieces on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper making sure to keep a little space between. Don’t overcrowd them or they may not cook evenly and take longer to cook. Use two baking sheets if needed.
Bake: Place them in the oven on the middle rack for about 10 min. Check after 6 minutes or so and flip any that seem to be browning too much on the edges.
Instructions
In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil/water over medium-high. Add leeks and saute until softened, about 5 minutes. Add in herbs and spices, cook until fragrant, about 1 minute. Add in potatoes, beans, broth and salt & pepper to taste. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for about 20 minutes, or until potatoes are fork tender. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serve topped with fresh chopped parsley. Great with your favorite crusty no knead bread or this easy gluten-free Socca Flatbread to soak up the juices!
Serves 4 – 6
NOTES:
You can change up the herbs here with what you have on hand. I really love the tarragon and savory here but starter cooks may not have them on hand so the herbs de provence and thyme will be great too!
Here is a simple guide to slicing and cleaning leeks: How To Clean Leeks
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, mix your dressing and set aside letting the flavors develop. Taste before serving adding anything you feel it needs.
Salad: Prepare your vegetables, place in a large bowl. Pour the dressing over top and toss to coat. Top with sesame seeds and slivered almonds. Alternatively, you can toss and serve adding a drizzle of dressing over top once plated. 
Serve: Place in individual bowls and serve with optional tofu and extra sesame seeds and slivered almonds.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days in a sealed container.
Instructions
Add the steel cut oats, optional spices & vanilla, pinch of salt, and water to the Instant Pot insert. Attach lid and twist to lock. Turn the valve to SEALING position. Manually set to HIGH pressure and cook for 4 minutes. Let natural release for 15 minutes.
Serve in individual serving bowls or glass containers, and top with your choice of toppings, pure maple syrup and non-dairy milk.
Makes about 2 cups (2/3 – 1 cup per serving)
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days. Warm on the stovetop over low, adding a splash of water or milk, until warmed through.
Instructions
Pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions.
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together garlic, lemon juice, dijon, oil, salt, and pepper. Set aside.
Assemble salad: Once veggies are prepped, using either a large mixing or serving bowl, or pot the pasta was cooked in, combine the pasta, veggies and dressing, toss well to coat.
Chill: Place in the refrigerator to chill for a few hours or enjoy as is.
Serve: Spoon into individual bowls and top with a squeeze of lemon and/or a light dusting of Almond Parmesan. Enjoy the simples!
Serves 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 – 6 days. This is a great salad for a pot-luck or family/work gathering. Can be made 1 – 2 days in advance.
Instructions
Soak Cashews: First, it’s best to soak your cashews in water before starting. There are 2 ways to soak:
Soak cashew in cool water for at least 2 hours in a bowl of water, covering the cashews about 2 – 3 inches of water as they will swell up.
For a quick method of soaking, let cashews sit in hot water for 5 minutes.
Blend: Drain cashews and place all remaining ingredients into a blender or food processor, process until creamy stopping to scrape down the sides every few minutes. Taste for flavors adding any additional ingredients. Some like a salty ricotta so feel free to add as much salt as you want.
Chill: Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for an hour or two, this will stiffen the mixture a bit. You can also prepare your dish straight away without refrigeration if needed. Refrigeration will thicken the mixture a bit. If it becomes too thick, add a tad of water and mix well.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to a 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 months in a freezer safe container. Let thaw in the refrigerator. Give a good stir before using.
Makes approx. 2 cups
Serves 8 – 1/4 cup per serving
Instructions
Orzo: Cook the orzo pasta according to package instructions.
Assemble: In a large bowl add the cooked orzo, red bell pepper, onion, chickpeas, artichoke, olives, tomatoes, pine nuts, parsley, dill, salt and pepper. Add the lemon juice and optional oil over top, toss well to coat. Season to taste.
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Salad is great alone. Also, try adding a small handful of leafy greens such as arugula to your serving for added freshness and fiber. It’s delicious!
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in an airtight container, for up to 5 – 6 days.
Serves 8
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. If not using a non-stick muffin tin, lightly grease with oil (see notes) or use muffin liners.
Mix: In a large mixing bowl, combine the chickpea flour, optional nutritional yeast, baking powder, salt, garlic powder, and basil. Whisk in the water (batter will be runny, but that’s normal). Add the corn, bell pepper, jalapeno, onion, and baby greens, mix to combine.
Scoop: Using a 1/4 measuring cup, scoop the batter into the muffin tin, filling all 12 holes. Top with a sprinkle of chives.
Bake: Place in the oven, on the center rack, and bake for 35 – 45 minutes (depending on the veggies used). Do the toothpick test by sticking it in the center of a muffin, if it comes clean, frittatas are ready. If cooking for 35 minutes and the center seems soggy, let them cool, and they will stiffen up nicely.
Remove from oven, turn out frittatas, and place on a cooling rack to cool.
Store: Leftovers can be stored, covered, in the refrigerator, or on the counter. Reheat in a toaster oven or microwave.
Makes 12
Instructions
Guacamole: Cut avocados in half lengthwise, remove seed and using a spoon scoop out the flesh, place in medium size bowl. Using a fork cut the halves into large chunks and mash about 1/3 – 1/2. Add diced jalapeno, onion, tomatoes, mineral salt and lime juice. Mix to incorporate. Add in chopped cilantro and mix again gently. TIP: To keep your guacamole from browning, pack your guacamole well, add about 1/4 – 1/2 inch water over top and place in the fridge. When ready to serve, drain water, mix and serve. This will keep air away preventing oxidation.
Fajitas: In a large skillet or wok, heat oil/water over medium high heat, add the onions and bell peppers, cook for about 6 – 7 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the chili powder, cumin and garlic powder, and optional chipotle/cayenne, and cook 1 minute more. Add black beans and cook until heated through, about 3 more minutes. Adjust seasoning to taste adding anything extra you like.
Tortillas: Warm the tortillas. I like to heat mine carefully over the open flame of the stove top.
Assemble: Serve layering the fajita mix on top of each tortilla, then add cabbage and a nice helping of guacamole. Top with a squeeze of lime to each taco if you like.
Serves 3 generously.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a medium pot, add quinoa, water, garlic & onion powder,, red pepper flakes, and salt, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove cover and let set 10 minutes, fluff with fork. You will most likely have a bit of leftovers.
Kale: Rinse kale, remove the hard center stem and julienne. Either right on the cutting board or in a large bowl, squeeze the juice of 1 – 2 limes over top and mix to coat (this will help soften the kale), set aside to let the kale marinate.
Chipotle dressing: Place all ingredients in a small bowl and mix well. Taste for flavor adjusting as needed. To thicken add a tad more tahini, to thin add more water. Set aside, the flavors will develop over a few minutes.
Beans: To heat or not to heat is up to you (I typically don’t). If heating, place beans with juices in small pan and heat over medium until warm. If not heating, drain and rinse beans well.
To serve: In serving bowl, place about 3/4 – 1 cup cooked quinoa, 1/3 of the beans, 1/3 of the kale. Top with pico de gallo, avocado and chipotle tahini sauce. Add a few smashed tortilla chips or pepitas (pumpkin seeds) sprinkled over top for a crunchy addition. Mix it all together and enjoy!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
PREPPING PEPPERS:
There are two ways to prepare your peppers for roasting.
 The first is to simply roast the whole pepper, seeds, stem and all. (This will work with all roasting methods.)
 The second is to slice the peppers in half lengthwise, remove the stem and seeds, and place on the baking sheet cut side down. (Use this method for the oven method and/or when using a baking sheet. These peppers require no flipping, only rotating of the baking sheet. This is my favorite way of roasting peppers.)
ROASTING METHODS:
Oven: Preheat oven to 475 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment or a Silpat. 
Place peppers on baking sheet. Bake 4 – 5 inches from the flame. If using an electric oven or there is no flame, place baking sheet on the middle rack. Roast peppers for 40 minutes, turning at least once during cooking using sturdy tongs (if peppers are sliced in half no need to turn, just rotate the baking sheet 180 degrees). They are ready when charred/blackened and blistered. Whole peppers will still be full of air and puffy once removed from the oven. As the peppers cool they will deflate and become wrinkly looking.
Broiler: I used to have an oven where the broiler was underneath the oven, now mine is in the oven. Either way, turn broiler to medium – high (or 500 degrees if yours is by numbers) and char peppers turning every so often until browned and blackened. If you’ve prepped your peppers by slicing in half, no need turn the peppers, simply adjust the baking sheet turning it to get all the peppers charred. This may take anywhere from 15 – 25 minutes.
Open Grill: Place whole peppers on their sides over an open flame on the grill, turning every now and then until nicely charred all over. Depending on how big your grill is will determine how many you can do at one time.
Stove Top: If roasting just 1 or 2 peppers, you can roast it over the gas burner of your stove (I suppose you could do 4 peppers utilizing each burner). Place pepper on its side and adjust the flame so it ‘licks’ the peppers. Keep an eye on it and turn it as needed to blacken and char, about 15 – 20. This tends to be a more time consuming method since you have to be so watchful.
STEAMING & PEELING:
While peppers are hot from the oven, carefully place them in a bowl and cover with a plate, or use a pot with lid. The goal is to steam the peppers making the skin peel easily. Let the peppers steam for about 30 minutes. Once peppers are cool, remove the skins, stems and seeds. I find it easiest to peel the pepper from the bottom to the top. A few seeds left are fine. Do not run peppers under water to clean, you’ll lose most of the roasted flavor that you worked so hard get. Keep as much of the pepper juices as you can if storing leftovers.
From here you can use right away to make hummus, romesco, soups, layer on sandwiches and toss in salads, etc.
STORING:
Rerfrigerator: Great for short term storage.
Keep leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a 5 – 6 days. 
If you coat them with a little oil they will for a couple of weeks. You can even add some of the pepper juices to the container. 
To always be safe, at the first sign of mold or spoilage, throw away immediately.
If storing for longer, you have a couple simple options:
Freezing: This is my favorite method of long term storing, as it is not blended with any other flavors, it’s super easy to do, and they thaw out amazingly well.
Freeze your peppers in a tightly sealed container. They thaw out pretty fast once removed from the freezer making this a nice way of preserving your precious peppers. 
This method of storing is a neutral way of keeping the full roasted flavor intact as they won’t be tainted with any other flavors. 
I would suggest cutting and placing a small piece of parchment paper between the peppers for easy removal. 
Will last up to 2 months. 
Vinegar Method: This is method will leave your peppers with a little bit of tang from the vinegar, in some cases it may overpower them, but it’s a great way to store them. Use these peppers for sauces, dips, and soups.
Place peppers in a jar with a little salt, vinegar and pepper juices. 
To do this you’ll want to sprinkle your peppers with a generous pinch of mineral salt and mix well. 
Place 1/2 inch of vinegar at the bottom of your pint sized mason jar, add peppers leaving about 1 1/2 inches headspace. 
Using the handle of a spoon or fork, poke along the inside edges of the jar to release air bubbles (this is important), pour reserved pepper juices over top so peppers are completely covered, leaving 3/4 inch room. 
Add about 1/8 inch of olive oil over top to keep air out, leaving 1/2 inch headspace. 
Seal and place towards the back of the refrigerator. Will be good for up to 2 months, maybe even a little longer. 
If you see any sign of mold or spoilage, throw away immediately!
Instructions
Vinaigrette: In a small bowl or glass jar, whisk together the apple cider vinegar, olive oil, dijon, garlic and salt + pepper. Season to taste.
Assemble Salad: In a large serving bowl, fill with romaine (or leafy greens of choice), top with carrots, onion, cucumber and croutons. Drizzle the dressing overtop and toss to combine.
Serves 4 – 6 small sides, or 1 – 2 as a main meal.
Serve in individual bowls. For more texture and flavor, top with Coconut Bacon, Crispy Roasted Chickpeas or Almond Parmesan for variation. A sprinkle of pepitas, sunflower seeds or hemp seeds would be great too!
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 – 3 days. If making for meal prep, it might be best to store the salad and dressing separately until ready to serve.
Instructions
Small Personal Blender: Simply add everything to the cup, attach the criss-cross blade, and blend for 1 minute. Taste for flavor. This is my preferred method and love my NutriBullet (affiliate link ) for small jobs like this!
Immersion Blender: Place the ingredients into a 2-cup measuring cup or tall straight glass (a mason jar would be great), and using the immersion blender, blend for 30 seconds to 1 minute, until creamy. Taste for flavor.
Regular Blender: This will work best when doubling this recipe. Simply place the ingredients in the blender, and process until smooth and creamy, about 1 minute, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Taste for flavor.
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse your quinoa in a fine mesh sieve. In a medium size pot, add water and quinoa, bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove cover and let set 15 minutes, fluff with a fork.
Dressing: While quinoa is cooking, prepare your dressing by combining ingredients in a small bowl. Mix well and set aside to let the flavors relax into each other. Add more water, 1 teaspoon at a time, to thin as needed. To thicken add more tahini. It should be thin enough to drizzle. Dressing serves four.
Salad: Core and dice apples, top with lemon juice and toss gently (I did this right on the cutting board to not dirty up another bowl). Prepare the remaining ingredients. Add the apples, grapes, celery, raisins, almonds, mint leaves and cinnamon to the quinoa, mix well. Taste for flavor adding more cinnamon if you like.
Spoon into serving dishes and serve with a good drizzle of the sweet tahini dressing.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Grain: Cook your grain according to package directions and set aside.
Black Bean + Corn Sofrito: In a large pan or pot, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion and bell pepper, saute for 5 minutes. Add the tomatoes, green chilies or jalapeno, cumin, chili powder, garlic powder and salt, mix well and continue to cook another 4 – 5 minutes, stirring often. Add the black beans and corn, cook a few minutes until warmed through. Stir in the cilantro. Taste for seasoning.
Layer + Roll: Place tortillas on a flat surface, down the center, leaving a few inches at each end, layer with 1/2 cup of black bean mix, then shredded lettuce, guacamole, and finish with 1/2 cup of rice.  Fold each of the end pieces up towards the center, holding the flaps down, roll the edge closest to you up and over, and continue to roll the burrito away from you to completely close it.
Serve with condiments of choice.
Makes 6 grande burritos
Store: Leftovers can be stored in a covered container, wrapped in foil or baggies and kept in the refrigerator for up to 6 days. For longer storage, they freeze well for up to 2 – 3 months (store without lettuce or avocado for best results).
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.
Prep: If you’re using canned chickpeas, place them in a colander and rinse them under cool running water.
Dry: Fold a large dish towel or flour sack in half, placing the chickpeas between. With your hands laid flat, roll the chickpeas using the palm of your hand and extended fingers to move the garbanzo beans around. Try to remove as much of the moisture as you can.
Remove loose skins: Once dried, pick away any skins that have noticeably become detached or loosened by gently pinching the chickpeas between your thumb and forefinger. Repeat rolling the chickpeas one more time for good measure.
Oil & Season: Spread the chickpeas onto a rimmed baking sheet lined with parchment paper or silpat (affiliate links), lightly greased is ok too. Drizzle with a teaspoon or two of olive oil, add seasoning and mix well to coat. Arrange the chickpeas across the baking sheet in a single layer.
Roast: Bake for 40 – 45 minutes, stirring every 10 minutes or so. Once done let cool a bit before using or storing.
Store: Chickpeas will stay crispy and crunchy stored in an uncovered or loosely covered bowl or container. When stored in an airtight container they will soften up and lose their crunchy texture. Will last on the counter for 5 days or so.
Serves 3, 1/2 cup per serving.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot, add oil/water and heat over medium heat. Add onion, carrot, and garlic, saute for 5 minutes. Add in the thyme, paprika, optional sage, and red pepper flakes, cook 1 more minute, or until fragrant. 
Simmer: Add the beans, pasta, tomatoes, bay leaves, and vegetable broth, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer until pasta is al dente, about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat, stir in the kale to soften and wilt (if you prefer very soft kale, add it 5 minutes before soup is done. Remove bay leaves before serving. Season with salt and pepper.
Serve: We love adding a squeeze of lemon to our serving bowl for brightness. And for soaking up the juices, this homemade Artisan Bread is delicious!
Serves 6 generously.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 – 7 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. To freeze, let cool completely and store in freezer-safe containers. Reheat on the stove or in the microwave.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the tahini, maple syrup, apple cider vinegar add pepper. Add 1 -2 tablespoons of water as needed to thin. Set aside to rest.
Assemble coleslaw: In a large bowl (a large soup or stock pot will work too), add the cabbage, apples, carrots, cranberries, green onions and almonds. Drizzle the tahini maple dressing over top and mix well to coat. Finish with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve as is, or store in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to chill. Coleslaw can be made a day ahead and stored, covered, in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
Makes about 8 cups
Serves 4 – 8
Instructions
Black Rice: In a medium pot, add rice and water, bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and let simmer for 25 minutes.
Tofu Curry: In a large dutch oven or pot, heat the coconut oil over medium heat, add onion, and cook until softened, about 5 minutes. Add in garlic, ginger, sweet potato, bell peppers, and mushrooms, cook another 2 – 3 minutes. Add curry powder and turmeric, cook for 1 minute or until fragrant. Add in the coconut milk, remaining liquids, and tofu, stir gently. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer for 10 – 15 minutes, until sweet potato is fork-tender. Turn off the heat, add in the lime juice and leafy greens, stirring gently until the greens soften and wilt.
Serve the tofu curry overtop rice and enjoy with fresh cilantro on top and a squeeze of more lime juice if you like. Pairs well with homemade Vegan Naan.
Store: Leftovers store well for a few days in an airtight container in the fridge. Flavors will enhance with time. For longer storage, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Serves 4
Instructions
Tahini Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk together all the ingredients except for the water. Taste for flavor adding any extra you might like. Add the water or lemon juice one tablespoon at a time to thin as needed to desired consistency.
Assemble salad: Prepare your salad, layer as you like adding half the chickpeas and top with dressing.
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container. If making for meal prep, keep the salad and dressing stored separately.
Instructions
Roast poblanos: Turn broiler to medium – high, place poblanos on baking sheet and place under the broiler for about 7 – 10 minutes, turning every few minutes to char and brown evenly on all sides. Poblanos will crackle and pop while cooking, they will be ready when charred and softened to the touch of a fork pushing on its side. Place poblanos in a bowl, cover with a plate or saran wrap and let steam for a few minutes (this will help loosen the skin for peeling). Remove the skin, lay the peeled poblano on a flat surface, remove the top and make a slit down the center, open and remove the seeds. Slice lengthwise into 1/2 inch strips.
Heat beans: Place beans in a small pot and cook over medium until warm, stirring occasionally. If using pinto or black beans, add a dash or two of garlic powder for a little extra flavor. You may decide to not heat your canned whole beans in which case, drain and rinse before using.
Prep veggies: Prepare scallions, purple cabbage and avocado. Heat your tortillas over the gas/electric burner until slightly charred.
Build: Layer your tacos with beans, poblanos, cabbage, scallions, avocado, cilantro and a sprinkle of pink salt & drizzle of cashew cream of choice or sriracha (or both!).
Serves 3
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven or pot, add the oil or water and saute the onion, carrot and celery for 5 minutes.
*Alternately, you can skip sauteing and add all the ingredients, except for the spinach, to a large pot, bring to a boil and continue with the recipe as written. This makes for one less step!
Cook: Add remaining ingredients, except the spinach, bring to a boil, cover askew, reduce heat to low and simmer at a gentle boil for 20 – 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Soup is done when veggies are tender and pasta is cooked. Add more broth or water as needed.
Add spinach: Five minutes before soup is done, add the spinach and stir to mix.
Let soup cool a few minutes and serve with a squeeze of lemon and chopped parsley on top. Pairs will with homemade Vegan Cornbread, crusty Artisan Bread or soft and chewy Vegan Naan for soaking up the juices.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. This soup also freezes well and will last for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Stovetop: In a saucepan, combine oats, pumpkin puree, pumpkin spice, plant milk , water, and salt, bring to a boil, reduce heat to simmer and cook over a gentle boil for 3 – 4 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand for 2 to 3 minutes.
Microwave: Add ingredients in a large bowl and mix well to combine. Microwave on HIGH for 3 minutes, stopping to stir after 2 minutes. To prevent the oatmeal from boiling over, be sure to use a larger, wider bowl. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Instant Pot: Combine oats, pumpkin puree, pumpkin spice, plant milk, water, and salt into the bottom of an Instant Pot insert. Give a good stir to mix in the pumpkin puree. Attach lid, turn to lock, and set valve to SEALING. Manually set to cook for 1 minute on HIGH pressure, and let the pressure natural release for 5 minutes. Total time, including coming to pressure, is about 17 – 20 minutes.
Slow Cooker (double recipe unless using a 3 qt.): Combine oats, water, pumpkin puree, pumpkin spice, 1plant milk, and salt in the bowl of a slow cooker. Stir well to combine and break up the pumpkin puree. Cook on LOW for 8 hours.
Serve: Place oatmeal in your serving bowl, top with pecans, and drizzle of maple syrup and plant milk.
Serves 2
Store: Leftover oatmeal can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days and make for great grab-n-go meals. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator before reheating.
Instructions
Saute: In a small pan or skillet, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion and saute for about 5 – 7 minutes, onions should be tender and slightly golden on the edges. Let onions cool a bit before moving to the food processor.
Glaze: Next, prepare the glaze. In a small bowl, combine the vinegar, maple syrup, tamari, tomato paste, and sriracha. Mix well, and set aside to let the flavors mingle. Taste again, adding more of any ingredient to suit your taste.
Process: Using a food processor, add slightly cooled onions, quinoa/rice, black beans, flaxseed meal, and spices/herbs. Pulse for 5 – 6 seconds at a time, until about half the mixture is combined. Be careful not to over-process, you want some chunkiness from the beans and onions.
Mix: Place mixture in a mixing bowl. You’ll notice once you remove the mixture, the underneath part will be more processed than the top. Using your hands or spatula, mix together well.
Patties: Form 4 round jumbo balls, making sure to pack the balls together well. Flatten each ball into a patty, about 3/4 inch thick, and smooth any cracks along the edges. Place on prepared baking sheet. Alternately, you can make 6 regular-sized patties or 8 sliders.
HOW TO COOK
Oven: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with silpat, parchment paper, or lightly grease with oil. Place baking sheet in preheated oven and bake for 12 – 15 minutes. Using a spatula, gently flip patties and bake another 12 – 15 minutes. Brush tip and sides with balsamic glaze. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Stovetop: Heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium-high heat, add patties, and cook 5 minutes, or until lightly browned. Carefully flip patties and cook another 5 minutes. Remove, brush with balsamic glaze.
Grill: Preheat grill to medium-high heat, on greased grill, place patties and cook 5 minutes, carefully flip and cook another 5 minutes, or until lightly browned and/or charred. Remove, brush with balsamic glaze.
Serve with fixins of choice and enjoy!
Makes 4 jumbo or 6 regular patties, or 8 sliders.
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a week, or in the freezer for up to 2 months (thaw before cooking).
Pair your burgers with these Homemade Baked Potato Chips, Vegan Coleslaw, Classic Potato Salad or Healthy Baked Beans!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease your baking dish with coconut oil if you like (generally I skip this step).
Mix: In an 8 × 8 baking dish, add oats, cinnamon, nutmeg, baking powder and salt, mix well. Add in the milk, banana, optional syrup and vanilla, gently whisk to combine. Top with chopped apples and walnuts, mix them in if you like.
Bake: Place in the oven on the middle rack and bake for 30 minutes. Once done, let cool slightly. 
Serve: Slice and serve warm in individual bowls with toppings of choice. Voila’….enjoy this most delicious and worth the wait oatmeal!
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Prepare the apples:
Unpeeled: Wash the apples well, quarter and core the apples, cut the quarters in half.
Peeled: Peel the apples, quarter, core and cut the quarters in half.
INSTANT POT:
Place apples in the bottom of the Instant pot, add the lemon juice, water and optional cinnamon.
Attach lid, and make sure vent is in the SEALED position. Push the PRESSURE COOKER button, and manually set the time for 6 minutes.
When done, let the steam vent on it’s own, takes about 6 minutes. Move the vent to open, careful not to burn yourself as there may still be steam left. Remove lid and let cool a bit, remove cinnamon stick.
Mash or puree: If cooking with the skins on, use an immersion blender right in the pot to puree the mixture, or transfer to a blender or food processor to puree until desired consistency. When cooking without the skins you can simply mash with a potato masher or back of a fork or slotted spoon.
SLOW COOKER:
Add the apples to the bottom of the crockpot, add the lemon, water and optional cinnamon, and cover with lid.
Set the slow cooker on high for 4 hours, stirring once or twice. Let cool a few minutes, remove cinnamon stick, and mash or puree.
Mash or puree: If cooking with the skins on, use an immersion blender right in the pot to puree the mixture, or transfer to a blender or food processor to puree until desired consistency. When cooking without the skins you can simply mash with a potato masher or back of a fork or slotted spoon.
Store your applesauce in the refrigerator for up to 7 days, or freeze for up to 2 months.
Makes 4 – 4 1/2 cups.
NOTES:
For ultra smooth applesauce, use a blender to puree.
If you prefer more sweetness, add a tad of sugar 1 – 2 teaspoons at a time until desired sweetness.
If you didn’t add cinnamon while cooking, feel free to add some after cooking.
Picking apples:
When picking your apples stick with your favorites to start, using all of one type or a combination of 2 – 3 types of apples. Organic is best, especially if cooking with the skins on!
I’ve used all fuji apples which were delicious and on the sweeter side. So if you prefer your applesauce to be very sweet use only fuji.
As for combinations, my favorites are a mix of fuji and granny smith apples or a mix of honey crisp, granny smith and fuji. These combos balance each other out well, having just the right amount of natural sweetness and tartness.
To peel or not to peel your apples?
Peeling: It takes a bit longer to prep but the end result is a little easier since you’ll simply need to mash the apples with a potato masher, back of a fork or back of a slotted spoon.
No Peel: The prep time moves along quicker, but the end time may take a little longer with the need to use an immersion blender, or transferring the cooked apples to a blender or food processor, to get a smooth consistency. The clear advantage of not peeling your apples is the health benefits, apples skins have antioxidants and fiber.
Instructions
Washing Leeks: Slice off the root end and the dark green parts. Slice in half lengthwise. Run under cold running water, opening up the layers as you rinse to remove and dirt between the leaf sheaths. Lay on flat surface and cut into thin slices horizontally (widthwise).
Saute: In a large dutch oven or stock pot, heat water/oil over medium to medium-high heat, add leeks, carrots and celery, saute for 5 minutes. Smells delicious already! Add garlic and spices, saute for 1 minute more or until fragrant. 
Add remaining ingredients: Add tomatoes, potatoes, cabbage, beans, and veg broth.
Simmer: Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 20 – 30 minutes, or until potatoes and cabbage are tender. Taste for seasoning adding salt & pepper as needed.
Serve topped with parsley and a serving of gluten-free socca or crusty artisan bread. Enjoy!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator in covered containers for up to 6 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer using freezer safe containers or bags for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Noodles: Cook noodles according to package directions, set aside. If using no boil lasagna noodles like I did there is no need to cook first.
Saute Veggies: In a large skillet, heat oil over medium heat, add onion and garlic, saute for about 5 minutes. Add carrots, zucchini, squash, mushrooms, herbs/seasonings and good pinch of salt and pepper, continue to saute for another 5 – 7 minutes. We don’t need to saute the zucchini, yellow squash and mushrooms too much, we want their juices to fully release while baking. Remove from heat.
Spinach Ricotta: Mix together the cashew ricotta and spinach, mix well.
Assemble & Layer: Using a large rectangular baking dish (9 x 12) place about 1/3 cup of sauce on the bottom of the dish spreading to coat, add a layer of pasta, top with 1/2 ricotta cheese and 1/2 vegetables. Add another layer of pasta, 1/2 of the remaining sauce, then the rest of the ricotta, then vegetables. Add one more layer of pasta and top with the remaining sauce. Cover with lid, small silpat or foil. 
Bake: Cover and bake on the center rack for 40 minutes. Let rest covered for 5 minutes, remove cover and let cool 10 minutes. If not using no-boil noodles, you can remove the cover half way through for a baked look.
To Serve: Add a sprinkle of Almond Parmesan and a bit of freshly chopped basil overtop.
Serves 9
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Cook grain: In a medium size pot add barley, a pinch of salt and water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 45 minutes. Remove cover and let set 5 – 10 minutes, fluff with a fork. Drain any remaining liquids. If using quick cooking barley, follow package instructions making 4 servings (1 cup barley + 1 1/3 cup veg broth).
Roast squash: While your barley is simmering, prepare your butternut squash by cubing into 3/4 – 1 inch pieces. Place on roasting pan lined with parchment paper, a silpat or lightly greased. Toss the squash with 1 tablespoon olive oil and sprinkle with the thyme and salt. Place on middle rake for 25 – 30 min, stirring once. Squash is ready when fork pierces easily.
Beans: In a medium size pan, heat the remaining olive oil over medium heat, add onions and cook about 5 minutes. Add spinach and cook until wilted (using a cover will help wilt the spinach faster), add beans and a dash or two of garlic powder, cook until heated through.
Serve: In individual bowls, add a portion of barley, beans and butternut squash. Add a side of sliced avocado.
Serve with avocado and season to taste with salt & pepper.
Serves 3
Instructions
Instant Pot:
Peel, or leave skins on, and quarter the potatoes (if using larger potatoes like russet, cut into 1 1/2 inch cubes). If cooking with the skins, scrub potatoes well before cutting.
Place potatoes at the bottom of the Instant Pot, add 1 1/2 cups (355 ml) water and a generous pinch of salt (if halving or doubling recipe see notes).
Attach lid, set vent to the SEALED position. Push the PRESSURE COOKER button, and manually set the time for 10 minutes (Instant Pot will come to pressure before actually cooking which may take 10 minutes).
When done, let the steam vent on its own, or carefully move the valve to open if you’re in a hurry.
Add oil/butter, and give the mashed potatoes a mash with a potato masher. Add the in milk, salt and pepper, and mash & stir well until fluffy and creamy, a few lumps is ok. Taste for flavor, adding more salt & pepper to taste.
Keep warm in the instant pot with this Instant Pot glass lid. Add a tad more milk and stir well to bring back creaminess before serving if needed.
Stovetop (or see this Stovetop Vegan Mashed Potatoes):
In a large pot, add potatoes and fill pot with enough water to cover potatoes, there should be about 1 inch of water overtop.
Bring to a boil, cover askew, reduce heat to low, and cook over a gentle boil for  15 – 20 minutes. Potatoes are done when fork tender.
Remove from heat, carefully drain water.
Mash with potato masher, add oil/butter and 1 cup milk, salt & pepper, stir to combine. Add more milk, a little at a time, as needed to achieve desired consistency (you may find you use up to 2 cups). Taste for flavor, adding more salt & pepper to taste.
Serves 8 – 10
Pair your mashed potatoes as a side with this flavorful The Ultimate Vegetable Loaf or Apple, Fennel & Sage Lentil Loaf. Also, use them as a bed for this delicious Mushroom Stroganoff, Mushroom Bourguignon or Hearty Lentil & Mushroom Ragu.
Instructions
In large skillet/saute pan heat olive oil over medium heat, saute onion and eggplant until tender, about 8 – 10 min. Add sauce, olives, capers, red pepper flakes, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 – 20 min. Sauce is ready when eggplant is fully tender.
Cook pasta according to package directions.
Serve eggplant sauce over pasta with a light dusting of Almond Parmesan over top. Pairs well with a slice of crusty bread. 
Serves 6
Instructions
Mix dry ingredients: In a large mixing bowl, add the flour, yeast, sugar and salt, mix to combine.
Mix wet ingredients: In a medium bowl or 2 cup measuring cup, combine the 3/4 cup warm water (between 105 and 115ºF.) with the yogurt and oil.
Combine dry & wet: Pour wet ingredients into the dry ingredients. Mix the wet and dry ingredients together. Dough will be rough & shaggy looking and tacky to the touch.
Quick knead: Knead the dough by pulling the dough ball onto itself about 5 times, and form a ball. Doesn’t have to be a tight ball.
Cover and let rise: Tightly cover bowl with saran wrap and let rest in a warm area away from drafts for about 60 – 90 minutes. The warmer the area, the faster the dough will rise. Once dough has risen it will have doubled in size.
Turn dough out: Fill a small bowl with flour and lightly sprinkle a flat surface with flour. Turn dough onto the flat surface and sprinkle with flour. Dough will be tacky.
Shape dough: Dust fingers with flour and shape the dough into a rectangle, it doesn’t have to be a perfect shape.
Cut dough: Cut the dough into 6 pieces, making them as even as possible (again it doesn’t have to be perfect).
Roll & flatten: When ready to bake, roll a piece into a ball. Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll the dough into an oval shape (about 9 x 4 inches), flatting to about 1/8 inch thick. Add more flour as needed to your work area and fingers.
Heat skillet and bake: Get the skillet nice and hot by heating over medium-high heat. Place dough onto the skillet surface. When bubbles start to appear (above left), flip the naan and cook the other side.
Garnish: Once done brush with olive oil or melted vegan butter and enjoy!
Makes 6
Store: Leftover naan can be stored in an airtight container for up to 3 days on the counter. To keep longer, freeze for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Prep dough: Remove pizza dough, slice into 4 equal pieces, sprinkle with a little flour, lay a towel overtop and let pizza dough come to room temp away from oven heat for 30 minutes.
Garlic-miso cream: Drain cashews and place all ingredients for the cream into a small blender cup and process until creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. If cream is too thick and extra water 1 tablespoon at a time until desired consistency, being careful not to thin it out too much making it runny, if in doubt leave it on the thick side. Taste for seasoning, set aside.
Saute veggies: In large skillet, heat olive oil over medium heat. Add onion, garlic and cook until onions become soft. Add in mushrooms, broccoli, kale, thyme and salt & pepper to taste, cook for another 5 minutes or so. Turn off heat and cover ajar to help steam and soften the veggies a little more while working on the next step.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Place pizza stone or cast iron pizza pan in the oven to heat up.
Make calzone: On a lightly floured surface or parchment paper, roll each portion out into an eight inch oval, rectangle, circle – whatever works easiest for you. Lay on some of the veggie mixture, add a few heaping tablespoons of the garlic miso cream and top with tomatoes. Fold the other half over and seal the edges by pressing with a fork. Make a few small slits in the top so steam is able to release. Top with a light coat of olive oil and a sprinkle of salt, pepper and thyme.
Bake: Dust the heated pizza stone with cornmeal, place calzone on the pizza stone (or if using parchment paper, transfer to pan or stone) and bake for 15 – 20 minutes, until crust is puffy and golden brown. Let cool a few minutes before serving.
Serve with garlic miso sauce on the side.
Store: Calzones can be kept in a covered container in the refrigerator for up 4 days. Reheat in a toaster oven or microwave.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or lightly grease with oil.
Orange-Miso Sauce: In a small or medium-sized bowl, whisk together the miso, vinegar, oil, orange juice, and optional maple syrup.
Tempeh: In a medium bowl, add the tempeh and a few tablespoons of the sauce, toss well to coat. Place the tempeh on the prepared baking sheet. Alternatively, add the tempeh to the baking sheet and toss it with sauce right on the pan.
Roast: Place baking sheet in the oven and cook for 12 minutes. Stir the tempeh and add the asparagus to the baking sheet. Continue to cook for 8 – 10 minutes. It will be ready when asparagus is bright green and just fork tender.
Add basil to sauce: Add the chopped (or julienned) basil to the remaining sauce. 
Coat tempeh + Asparagus: Once roasting is complete, remove the baking sheet. Let cool a few minutes, add a few tablespoons of sauce to the tempeh and asparagus, and toss to coat.
Serve: Serve in individual bowls with a grain of choice and tempeh & asparagus mixture over the top. Add a drizzle of remaining juices and a sprinkle of toasted and/or black sesame seeds. Enjoy the simples!
Serves 2 generously, or 3
Instructions
Soak cashews: Place cashews in a small bowl and cover with very warm, not boiling, water. Let soak for 10 minutes. Alternatively, soak the cashews in cool water for 2 hours. Drain water before using.
Alfredo Sauce: In a blender, add the cashews, garlic, miso, onion and garlic powder, salt, lemon juice, and water, and blend until thick can creamy, stopping as needed to scrape down the sides. Taste for flavor and add more liquids to thin to desired consistency. Tastes will vary – if you find it’s too bland, add more salt to taste. 
Pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions.
Combine: With the pasta freshly cooked and drained, you can toss the pasta and alfredo sauce in the pot the pasta was cooked in. Alternatively, serve the warm pasta in individual bowls, top with alfredo sauce, and toss.
Serve: Top with chopped parsley and fresh cracked pepper. It’s great with a slice of homemade Artisan Bread or garlic bread.
Serves 6
Store: Leftover sauce and/or pasta can be kept in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 6 days. Reheat on the stove over low heat, adding a splash or two of water.
Instructions
In a small bowl, whisk together the tahini, lemon, garlic powder, salt, and optional ingredients. Add water 1 tablespoon at a time as needed to thin. Taste for flavor.
Makes about 1 cup.
Serves 8, 2 tablespoons per serving.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 – 7 days. Give a good stir before using.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Flax eggs: If using flax eggs, in a small bowl combine 2 tablespoons flaxseed meal + 6 tablespoons water. Set aside for at least 10 minutes to gel up. If using banana, in small bowl mash your banana as smooth as possible, set aside.
Cream together oil & sugar: In a large mixing bowl, combine coconut oil and sugar, mix well, making sure there are no lumps of oil. 
Add wet ingredients: Add in mashed banana/flax egg, non-dairy milk or maple syrup, and vanilla.
Add dry ingredients: Add the flour, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt, mix well to combine scraping the bottom to make sure there are no flour clumps. Add in the oats and mix well. Lastly, add in chocolate chips, mix again.
Scoop dough: Line a cookie/baking sheet with a silpat or parchment paper. Scoop out rounded tablespoons of mixture and place on baking sheet about 1 1/2 inches apart. 
Bake: Place baking sheet in the oven and bake for 10 – 13 minutes, until lightly browned around the edges. Remove from oven, let cool a few minutes and enjoy.
Makes approx. 24 cookies
Store: Cookies can be stored in an airtight container on the counter for 5 days. They’ll keep longer if stored in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks. You can freeze your cookies for up to 2 months (see notes).
Instructions
Butternut squash: Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, a silpat or lightly greased with oil. Place butternut squash on baking sheet, drizzle with 1 tablespoon oil, and mix well to coat. Add a sprinkle of salt and pepper over top. Place in oven on the middle rack and cook for 25 – 30 minutes, stirring after 15 minutes. Remove from oven, set aside.
Wheat berries + kale: In a medium size pot, add water, wheat berries and a pinch of salt, bring to boil, cover, reduce heat to low so water is at a gentle boil, and cook for 45 minutes, or until wheat berries are tender. Add kale to the wheat berries and give a good stir, let set for 5 minutes, or until kale softens and wilts. Drain wheat berries and kale.
Onion: In a small skillet or pan, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil over medium heat, add onion and cook 5 minutes, until softened.
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the apple cider, dijon mustard, olive oil, pepper and salt, mix well to combine.
Mix it all together: In a large serving/mixing bowl, combine the kale, wheat berries, butternut squash, onion, pomegranates, optional parsley and dressing, toss well to combine. Add extra salt and pepper to taste.
Serve warmed, at room temperature or chilled. Tastes great with a slice of freshly cut crusty bread. Enjoy!
Serves 6
NOTES:
If using different wheat berries, cook according to package, and add an extra cup of water.
Use farro or barley in place of the wheat berries if you prefer. Cooking times of farro and barley my vary so adjust and cook according to package directions. You can still add the kale at the end, just be sure to put the lid on for a few minutes to help stem the kale.
Feel free to use baby kale instead. No need to cook the baby kale. Simply add it to the mixing bowl while everything and combine.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. (204 c). Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, a silpat or lightly grease with oil.
Quinoa: In a medium pot, bring the quinoa, water and 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer over a gentle boil for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, uncover and let rest 10 – 15 minutes, fluff with fork.
Roasted Butternut Squash: Place the butternut squash and onion the prepared sheet pan, drizzle with oil, using your hands or utensils, toss to coat. Spread across sheet pan in a single layer, sprinkle with remaining 1/2 teaspoon garlic powder and mineral salt. Place on rack in center of the oven and roast for 20 – 30 minutes, stirring once or twice. Will be done when butternut squash is just fork tender, not mushy.
When done, remove from oven and sprinkle dried cranberries overtop, let cool a few minutes. Cranberries will soften and warm.
Toast Pecans: Heat a small pan over medium-low, add pecans and stir often until fragrant for 2 – 3 minutes, careful not to let them burn. This step is optional, pecans are great un-toasted too.
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the orange juice and cinnamon.
Assemble: In a large mixing/serving bowl, add the quinoa, butternut squash mixture, kale, pecans, and drizzle with the dressing, toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper.
Serve: Serve warm, at room temperature or chilled. When in season, it pairs great with pomegranate seeds!
Store: Keep leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Cashew Ricotta: Soak the cashews in warm water for 5 – 10 minutes, drain. In a blender cup, place the cashews, water, lemon juice, garlic & onion powder and salt, blend until creamy smooth. Set aside.
Pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Tomato Sauce: In a medium pot, heat the oil/water over medium heat and saute the onion for 5 minutes, add garlic and cook 1 minute more. Add the tomatoes, thyme, oregano, salt and pepper, continue cooking over medium heat for 7 – 10 minutes, breaking up the tomatoes as you cook. Taste for flavor.
Assemble: In a casserole or medium-large baking dish, combine the sauce and pasta together, mixing well to incorporate the bits of tomato throughout. Top with vegan ricotta and cover.
Bake: Place on the center rake and bake for 30 minutes, removing the cover after 20 minutes. Let cool a few minutes, top with chopped parsley or basil.
Serves 6
Serve in individual bowls with a light dusting of Almond Parmesan.
Store: Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 4 – 5 days. To store longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
First, you may want to toast your seeds to bring out the most flavor, but this is optional. You want your seeds to become fragrant and slightly darker during the process. 
Toast your seeds one of two ways:
 Preheat oven to 350. Place seeds on a roasting pan or rimmed cookie sheet and roast for about 10 – 15 minutes making sure to move them around every few minutes so the seeds on the bottom don’t burn.
OR
 Dry roast over medium-low heat in a skillet using one cup at a time (add more or less depending on your skillet). Be sure to move the seeds around frequently to ensure that they don’t burn.
Process the sesame seeds: Once you have toasted your seeds and they have cooled a bit, place them in your food processor or high-speed blender (add optional salt/garlic powder), and process until creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides a few times. The process will take approximately 5 – 10 minutes to blend depending on your equipment.
Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
Store: Keep in the pantry for 1 month (maybe more), in an airtight container. For maximum freshness, store it in the fridge for up to 6 months.
Instructions
Saute: In dutch oven or pot, heat oil over medium heat, add onions and saute until onions are translucent, about 5 – 7 minutes. Add tomatoes, garlic and ginger, and cook 5 minutes, or until tomatoes start to break down.
Simmer: Add the lentils, liquids, and dry spices, bring to boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer at a gentle rolling boil for 15 – 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, until lentils are tender, not mushy. Dal will thicken upon standing, add more liquids as needed.
Serve: Ladle into individual serving bowls as is. Or serve over a bed of arugula, white rice, brown rice, or this Cilantro Lime Rice. Top with a squeeze of lemon for brightness. It pairs great with a side of homemade Vegan Naan.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Mix: Place all ingredients in food processor, blend until combined. Add 1 tablespoon water at time if needed to help the mixture clump up. I used about 1 tablespoon, use at your discretion. 
Don’t worry if the dough seems a little too sticky, as it will become a bit stiffer once refrigerated. And if it’s a little sticky it will help when you roll the balls in a coating. If the mixture is too wet, try adding a pinch or two of oats. The dryer they are the more they will be a stiffer, but chewy cookie. The moister they are, they will be more like cookie dough. Both ways are good. :)
Scoop + roll: Next, roll the dough into one inch balls. If dough seems too sticky to roll, refrigerate the dough for about 20 minutes before rolling. 
Finishing touch: You can roll the energy bites in a variety of ingredients for a nice finishing touch. I rolled some in hemp seeds, coconut, cinnamon and cacao powder. I wanted to experiment with different coatings. If rolling in powders be sure to gently lift and drop your coated balls a few times an inch or two above a hard surface to let any excess powder fall off.
Makes 12 energy bites
Store: Keep in the refrigerator and eat within 1 – 2 weeks. For longer storage, they can be kept in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Prepare the ingredients. Once you’ve sliced the avocados and removed the seeds, squeeze or rub a little lemon juice on the flesh to keep the browning at bay.
Place the cucumber, bell pepper, jalapeno, onion, and optional garlic and diced tomatoes in a small/medium mixing bowl, add just enough of the hummus or vegan mayo to bind.
Fill avocados and top with salt, pepper and squeeze of lemon. Adding a little chopped parsley will add even more color!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Mix dry ingredients: In a medium size bowl, mix the flour, baking powder, sugar, salt and spices, blend well. 
Cut in butter: Add the butter or oil, and using either a pastry blender or back of a fork, mix well. There should be little clumps of butter or oil, it doesn’t have to be perfect.
Mix in wet ingredients: Add the ricotta and almond milk to the mixture and stir until just mixed. 
Add persimmon: Toss in the persimmons and finish mixing.
Shape and cut dough: Turn the dough out onto a flat surface sprinkled lightly with flour, shape into a ball and flatten into a round circle about 7 – 8 inches in width and 1 inch in height. It’s ok to have lumps and bumps, giving a rustic look. Using a knife, divide the dough into 6 – 8 pieces.
Bake: Place the scones on the prepared baking sheet. I like to add a sprinkle of sugar over top. Bake for about 18 – 22 minutes until lightly golden at the edges. Let cool a bit before transferring to a cooling rack. 
Store: Leftovers can be stored loosely covered and eaten within a couple of days, but they are best eaten right away.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Soak Cashews: Soak, covered with 1 inch of very hot water for 5 – 10 minutes to help soften them up so they blend ultra creamy. If you have nut sensitivities, soak the cashews in cool water for 2 – 3 hours to aid in digestion.
Prep: Dice the artichoke hearts and prep the spinach.
Cashew Cheese: Using your favorite blender, add the soaked cashews, nutritional yeast, garlic powder, lemon juice, salt and pepper, and liquids to the bowl and process until nice and smooth, about 3 minutes or so. Taste for flavor, adding more of anything as needed.
Assemble: In a small or medium sized baking dish, add the spinach and artichoke hearts, pour the cashew cheese overtop and mix to combine. Wipe along the rim of the baking dish before baking for clean finish if you like.
Bake: Place in the oven, covered for 10 minutes, remove cover and bake another 10 minutes. Feel free to adjust the cover at any time to your preference (for me, sometimes I leave it covered the entire time).
Serve: Serve as is or give a good stir before serving. This dip is great warm or at room temperature, and is delicious scooped up with a sliced baguette or homemade crusty bread, pita chips, crackers or fresh vegetable sticks.
Would be great with a light dusting of Almond Parmesan too!
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days, in a covered container. Reheat in preheated oven set to 375 degrees for 10 – 15 minutes, or until warmed through.
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven or pot, heat oil over medium heat, add onion and carrots, saute 5 minutes, or until translucent, add garlic and ginger, cook 1 minute more. 
Simmer: Add the liquids, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until carrots are tender.
Puree: Let soup cool a bit. Add miso to soup and puree using 1 of 3 methods: An immersion blender right in the pot, a food processor or a regular blender. You may have to puree the latter two methods in batches.
Finishing: Add a bit more water as needed. Taste for seasoning adding salt, especially if you didn’t use veggie stock you may like to add salt. Add pepper, more miso or grated ginger to taste.
Serve: Ladle the soup into serving bowls, top with sliced tofu, a sprinkle of cayenne for some heat and a nice bunch of chives or scallions. Enjoy!
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
To the bottom of a blender cup or food processor bowl, add the mango, garlic, apple cider vinegar, water, red pepper flakes, and salt. Process until smooth and blended, about 1 minute.
Makes about 1 1/4 cups.
Serves 2 – 4
Store: Keep stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Will also keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months in freezer safe containers. Let thaw before using.
Ways to use: Rainbow Salad, Super Spinach Salad, or Grilled Tofu Skewers
Instructions
Preheat oven to 500 degrees F.
Let dough rest: Coat an 8 or 10 inch cast iron skillet with olive oil. Remove dough from refrigerator, open package and place dough in center of the skillet, cover skillet with a clean dish towel. Let set for 30 minutes.
Roast veggies: Prep the mushrooms, zucchini, bell pepper and onion. Place on a rimmed baking sheet, along with the tomatoes for the sauce, drizzle with olive oil and gently toss to coat, keeping the tomatoes together. Sprinkle with salt. Place in the oven on the middle rack for 15 minutes. Remove and set aside.
Pre-bake dough: Remove dish towel for skillet and gently flatten out dough, pushing up the edges about 1 – 1/2 inches. Place in oven on middle rack and bake for 10 minutes.
Make sauce: While dough is pre-cooking, add the warm tomatoes, and remaining ingredients for the balsamic tomato sauce to a food processor or blender and process until blended and fairly smooth. Taste for flavor adding anything extra you might like.
Bake pizza: Remove dough from the oven, layer with 1/2 cup of the tomato sauce and reserved roasted vegetables. Place in oven and bake for 15 minutes, until crust is golden. Remove from oven and let cool a few minutes before cutting to serve.
Serve with red pepper flakes and a good dusting of almond parmesan.
NOTES:
If your crust doesn’t become golden enough for you, place the skillet pizza under the broiler for a minute or so checking often so it doesn’t burn.
I would love to recommend a good pizza dough recipe but I haven’t made one yet and find the ready made dough is quick and works great for me. If you have a good whole wheat pizza dough recipe I’d love know about it!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or silpat.
Chickpea Croutons: Place rinsed chickpeas between a clean dish cloth, and gently rub them to dry, removing any of the loose skins. Place chickpeas on a prepared baking sheet, drizzle with oil and toss to coat, sprinkle with garlic powder and salt. Arrange chickpeas in a single layer, and garlic cloves (from the dressing), and bake for 40 – 45 minutes, stirring every 10 minutes or so. Remove the garlic if they seem to be getting too baked (especially if they are on the smaller side). Once done, set aside.
Caesar Salad Dressing: Soak the cashew in hot water (not boiling) for 5 minutes, drain. In a high speed or personal blender, add the cashews, water, roasted garlic cloves, capers, worcestershire, dijon, lemon juice, salt & pepper, blend until creamy smooth. Makes about 1 cup.
Assemble Caesar Salad: Place the chopped romaine in a large mixing bowl, add as much or as little of the dressing as you like, you may have some leftover, and give a good toss. Top with chickpea croutons, avocado, and a sprinkle of Almond Parmesan.
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftover salad and dressing will stay fresh in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in covered containers.
Instructions
In a small to medium size bowl, combine all ingredients adding the water in small increments until desired thickness/thinness. Taste for flavor and serve as desired. Use less water for dips and sauces and more water for salad dressings.
Typically this will serve 4 – 6 depending on how much extra is added.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Black Beans: In a medium pot, warm oil over medium heat, add the onions and saute for 5 minutes. Add the jalapeno, cumin, oregano, garlic powder and pinch of salt, cook for 30 seconds to 1 minute, until nice and fragrant. Add the beans, and 1/4 cup of water, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 5 – 8 minutes. Remove from heat, smash at least 1/2 of the beans, using the back of a slotted spoon or fork. Add the remaining water as needed for desired consistency. If you add too much water, the beans will thicken upon standing. Taste for flavor adding more salt as needed.
Warm the tortillas: I love to warm my tortillas over a medium-low flame of the stovetop burner, flipping them often until they are lightly charred around the edges.
Assemble: Lay the tortilla on a flat surface, top with 1/4 cup of the beans, small handful of leafy greens, pico de gallo and/or corn salsa, sliced avocado, and crumbled cheese (optional). Add a sprinkle of salt and squeeze of lime overtop.
Makes about 10 tacos, 2 tacos per serving.
Store in the refrigerator or freezer: Keep leftover black beans in the refrigerator 4 – 5 days, stored in covered containers. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for 2 – 3 months in freezer safe containers. Let thaw before reheating.
To Reheat: Warm the beans on the stove over low, stirring occasionally, until warmed through. Alternately, place them in the microwave for 30 second intervals, stirring each time, until warmed.
NOTES:
These Instant Pot Black Beans made from scratch using dried beans would be great too!
For creaminess, try adding a dollop of Vegan Sour Cream or Sriracha Cashew Cream.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a medium/large mixing bowl, combine the buckwheat flour, sugar, cinnamon, baking powder and salt, mix well. Add the mashed bananas, oil and vanilla, mix to combine. Place batter in a lightly greased 9×5 loaf pan and bake on the middle rack for 50 minutes. Remove from oven, let cool about 10 minutes and enjoy.
Pairs wonderfully with a little homemade almond butter!
Store: Leftovers can be stored covered on the counter for up to 3 days or in the refrigerator for up to 1 week. Keep in the freezer for up to 3 months – place completely cooled loaves in freezer containers or bags. Thaw the wrapped loaves overnight in the refrigerator.
Makes 8 – 10 slices
Instructions
Place the frozen banana, berries, acai powder or puree, optional seeds, and liquids into the blender cup.
Puree until smooth and creamy, about 1 minute, adding a little extra liquid as needed to help it move along and blend.
Pour into a serving glass and enjoy!
Serves 1
Instructions
I’ll let you measure your ingredients. I used about 1/2 cup of chickpeas, 1/2 avocado and a small handful of carrots, tomatoes, onion and cucumber for each salad. Use however much you like depending on how big your salad is going to be.
Place your ingredients in your serving bowl, add a big dollop of hummus to the middle, sprinkle with seeds and a big squeeze of lemon. Say out loud, or to yourself, “I am grateful for all that is”, while keeping good thoughts in your mind. Then dig in and nourish yourself everyday!
Notes:
Add in any vegetables you prefer….broccoli florets, sliced zucchini, radishes, bell peppers, artichokes hearts, olives, etc. In the cooler months try adding in roasted vegetables like sweet potato, butternut squash, broccoli, carrots, etc. You can also add in some fresh herbs like parsley or cilantro if you have them on hand.
Sub in sunflower seeds and/or sesame seeds for the pumpkin seeds and hemp hearts.
For the best chickpea flavor, try making them fresh at home. It’s really easy and nothing beats the freshness of homemade chickpeas!
Enjoy and be grateful!
Instructions
Vegan sausage: If using plant-based sausage, you’ll want to cook it first. Slice it into bite-size pieces and cook in a skillet with 1 tablespoon oil, over medium heat until browned, about 3 – 5 minutes on each side. Transfer to a small plate lined with a paper napkin to soak up excess oil. 
Saute: In a large pan, heat oil/water over medium-high heat, add the onion, garlic, celery, and bell peppers, saute for 5 minutes. Add the smoked paprika, thyme, and oregano, and saute for 1 minute more.
Simmer: Add the crushed tomatoes, rice, bay leaves, and broth, bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover askew, and simmer on low for 20 – 25 minutes, stirring every 7 minutes or so to keep the rice from sticking to the bottom of the pan. In the last 5 minutes, add the beans and/or sausage and continue to cook until warmed through. Remove bay leaves, season with salt and pepper.
Serve: Spoon into serving bowls and top with garnish of choice.
Serves 6 – 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored for up to 5 days in the refrigerator. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 months. Let thaw before reheating on the stovetop or in the microwave. 
Instructions
INSTANT POT:
Place the quartered apples, than cranberries, lemon juice, apple/orange juice or water, and cinnamon stick in the insert of a 6 qt. Instant pot.
Attach lid, and make sure vent is in the SEALED position. Push the PRESSURE COOKER button, and manually set the time for 5 minutes.
When done, let the steam vent on it’s own, takes about 6 minutes. Move the vent to open, careful not to burn yourself as there may still be steam left. Remove lid and let cool a bit.
Remove the cinnamon stick and mash with a potato masher or back of a slotted spoon, until desired consistency. Alternately, for a smooth applesauce, once cooled a bit, use an immersion blender or transfer to a high-speed blender or food processor.
STOVETOP:
In a large pot, add the chopped apples, cranberries, lemon juice, apple/orange juice or water, and cinnamon stick, cook over medium heat, stirring frequently, for 15 – 20 minutes, or until the apples are very soft and/or berries pop.
Remove the cinnamon stick and mash with a potato masher or back of a slotted spoon, until desired consistency. Alternately, for a smooth applesauce, once cooled a bit, use an immersion blender/high-speed blender or food processor.
SLOW COOKER:
Add the diced apples to the bottom of the crockpot, add the cranberries, lemon juice, apple/orange juice or water and cinnamon stick.
Set the slow cooker on high for 4 hours, stirring once or twice.
Remove the cinnamon stick and mash with a potato masher or back of a slotted spoon, until desired consistency. Alternately, for a smooth applesauce, once cooled a bit, use an immersion blender/high-speed blender or food processor.
Serve warm or chilled.
Store your applesauce in the refrigerator for up to 7 days, or freeze in a freezer safe container for up to 2 months.
Makes 4 – 4 1/2 cups.
NOTES:
If applesauce is not sweet enough after cooking, add 1 tablespoon of pure maple syrup at a time, until desired sweetness.
Cut the apples accordingly:
Instant Pot: Quartered is fine, you don’t really need to worry about the size since the pressure cooker will cook them well, no matter what size they are.
Stovetop: Best to chop or dice, the smaller the cubes, the quicker they cook.
Crock pot: Chop or quartered will do fine, since they will be cooking for up to 4 hours.
Instructions
In a small bowl, add lemon juice and spices, mix well. Set aside.
Place fruit in a mixing bowl, top with with mint and lemon juice mixture, gently toss to combine.
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Pairs great with non-dairy ice cream or yogurt!
Store leftovers in the refrigerator, will last 2 – 3 days.
Serves 6 (1 cup serving).
NOTES:
Use any combination of berries, or change the amounts using more or less of each. This is just a template.
The fruits were naturally sweet on their own and didn’t need any sweetener. If you find your cherries and berries are not very sweet, add 1 – 2 tablespoons of sweetener of choice. Add it to the lemon juice, or drizzle/sprinkle it over top of the salad.
Use orange juice in place of lemon for variation.
Recommended sweeteners:
Pure maple syrup
coconut nector
turbinado (raw) sugar
coconut sugar
date syrup
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Scrub sweet potato and prick them in a few places with a fork. 
Oven: Place on baking sheet and bake until soft, about 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
Microwave: Microwave on high for 5 minutes, rotate the potatoes and cook another 3 – 5 minutes, depending on how large the sweet potatoes are you may even need a 1 – 2 minutes more.
Prepare your sriracha cashew cheese sauce and set aside.
Towards the end of baking time, or when sweet potatoes are cooling, steam your broccoli and warm the optional black beans.
To serve, slice your sweet potato along the top center from end to end, push the ends to open up the middle. Fill with broccoli and avocado, top with a nice drizzle of the sriracha cheese sauce. Enjoy the simples!
Serves 3
NOTES:
Nutritional information includes a serving of sriracha cashew cream sauce.
Instructions
Sauce: In a small/medium bowl, combine the sauce ingredients and mix together until blended. Set aside for 30 min to let the flavors mingle. Add extra ingredients to suit your taste.
Prep: While sauce is setting, prepare your veggies and rinse the kelp noodles. You could cut your kelp noodles into smaller pieces or leave as is (I left mine as is). 
Assemble: Place kelp noodles and other vegetables in a large bowl, pour the pad Thai sauce over top and toss until thoroughly coated.
Serve in individual bowls with a squeeze of lime and cashews over top. Enjoy to the fullest!
Serves 2 generously
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Simmer: In a medium pot, add the tomatillos, onion, garlic, jalapeno, and vegetable broth and bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes.
Blend: Let cool a few minutes and gently transfer to a blender. Add the cilantro and/or parsley and process until smooth. Taste for flavor, adding more salt as needed.
Makes about 6 cups
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in a covered container. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. To freeze, let cool completely and store in freezer safe containers leaving 1/2 inch of head space for expansion. Let thaw in the refrigerator before using.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a small/medium pot, combine the quinoa and water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 13 minutes. Remove lid, let set 10 minutes, fluff with a fork. Set aside.
Filling: In a large pan or pot, heat oil/water over medium heat, add onion and saute for 4 minutes, add bell pepper and continue to cook for 2 minutes. Add the tomatoes, zucchini and corn, cook another 3 minutes or so (cook veggies until they are as soft as you like, I prefer mine to be a little al dente). Add the black beans, quinoa, cilantro, cumin, chipotle, garlic & onion powder, and salt, continue to cook until heated through.
Roll: Place tortillas on a flat surface, place a mound of the filling in the center, leaving room all the way around, fold in half, fold up each end, and roll the burrito away from you to completely close it.
Freeze: I try to avoid foil, so here I used paper sandwich bags. Feel free to use foil, freezer paper, saran wrap, plastic freezer ziploc bags or whatever you’re used to freezing with. If using the paper sandwich bags, they should be eaten within a few weeks to avoid freezer burn. Most likely they won’t be around that long!
Reheat: If at room temperature, warm in the oven/toaster oven at 375 degrees F for 10 minutes or so, or microwave for 30 seconds. If frozen heat in the oven at 375 degrees for 30 minutes, or microwave for 1:30 – 2 minutes.
Serve with sliced avocado and your favorite salsa (I paired mine with a hatch chili salsa). You may also like to pair it with any of these condiments: Cashew Sour Cream, Cilantro-Lime Cashew Cream, Chipotle Tahini Dressing, Cumin-Lime Tahini Dressing, Pico de Gallo, or Homemade Guacamole.
Enjoy these flavorful vegan freezer burritos!
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Line large, rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or a silpat.
Combine: In a large mixing bowl, combine the oats, almond, cashews, flaxseed meal, coconut flakes, maple syrup, vanilla, optional cinnamon and pinch of salt, mix well to combine.
Spread: Layer granola mixture on the lined baking sheet, spreading out to the edges, in as evenly distributed as possible.
Bake: Place baking sheet in the oven, on the middle rack, and cook for 45 minutes, stirring the mixture well every 10 minutes or so.
Let cool slightly: Once done, remove from oven and let cool. When granola has cooled, it will be perfectly crunchy and ready for you to devour!
Store: Keep leftover granola in an air tight container for up to 3 weeks.
Makes 6 cups, with 12 servings
Ways to serve your granola:
It’s great as a cereal with fresh fruit, non-dairy milk or yogurt.
Topped on non-dairy ice cream
Add a small handful on top of your favorite smoothies, smoothie bowls and shakes
Instructions
Salad: Add romaine and cabbage to a large bowl. Add the bell peppers, scallions, and cilantro over the greens. Toss to mix. 
Serve: Serve in individual dishes, top with diced avocado and spicy mango dressing. Add a sprinkle of black sesame seeds and slivered almonds over top. If eating this as a monster salad, simply enjoy straight from the large bowl.
Makes one very large salad or four smaller salads.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
Instructions
In a food processor (or blender), place frozen banana pieces and almond butter, blend until a fairly smooth consistency stopping every now and then to scrape down the sides and push the mixture to the bottom of the processor. 
Serve in bowls and top with, or incorporate, the chocolate pieces and almonds while blending, use as much as you like. 
Serves 2 – 3
Enjoy right away as a soft serve or freeze to harden like ice cream. To freeze, store in sealed freezer-safe containers. It will take about 6 hours to fully harden. Will last for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat, add onion and saute for 5 minutes, until translucent. Add in garlic, celery, carrots and herbs/spices, cook another 2 minutes or so. 
Simmer: Add in the quinoa, beans, tomatoes, and vegetable broth, bring to a boil, cover, turn heat to low and simmer for 25 minutes. Add in kale and keep on low heat, stirring occasionally, until kale wilts (baby kale will wilt faster than a typical bunch of kale).
To serve: Pair with a slice of crusty bread and a light dusting of almond parmesan. We also love adding a squeeze of lemon for brightness.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 –  3 months. To freeze, let cool completely and store in freezer-safe containers. Reheat on the stovetop or in the microwave.
Instructions
Mix and let rest: In a medium size mixing bowl, add flour, water and salt. Whisk until smooth, cover and let set for at least 15 minutes, up to 12 hours, covered, on the counter or overnight in the fridge.
Preheat: Heat oven to 450 degrees F. Place a well seasoned skillet on the middle rack while oven is heating (we want it to get nice and hot). 
Oil skillet + pour batter: Once oven is ready, carefully remove skillet, add 1 – 2 tablespoons oil and carefully twirl skillet so the oil coats the bottom evenly. Pour the batter into the skillet.
Bake: Place skillet into the oven and back in the oven for 12 – 15 minutes, until golden on the edges and firm throughout. 
Optional broiler: Once done you may like to add a more golden and rustic look, turn broiler to high, place skillet under broiler for about 2 minutes, until top starts to golden a bit.
Cool & remove: Remove from the oven and let cool a few minutes. Using a spatula gently push under and around the sides of the flatbread. Tip skillet to remove socca bread or carefully flip skillet over to remove. 
Serve: Cut into 4 – 8 slices or pull apart and eat. Socca is best eaten right away.
Store: Socca can be stored on the counter in an airtight container for up to 3 days.
Instructions
Soak cashews: Soak your cashews in enough water to cover and have about 2 -3 inches of water over top. Cashews will swell up and need plenty of water to soak up. Let soak for 2 – 3 hours. Alternately, do a quick soak by soaking cashews in hot water for 5 minutes.
Broil chiles: Turn your broiler on to medium or medium-high, place the hatch chiles on a baking sheet and set under the broiler. Times will vary depending on your oven so pay attention and check on them every few minutes. You will hear them blister and crackle every now and then. Turn every few minutes to char evenly on all sides. Chiles will be ready when charred and softened. Mine took about 7 – 10 minutes. Let cool a few minutes.
Peel + slice: Remove the charred skin, make a slit lengthwise, core and remove the seeds (some seeds ok).
Puree: Place the cashews, chiles, cumin, garlic, cilantro, salt, lime juice and water (starting with the least amount) in a blender/food processor. Blend until creamy scraping down the sides every now and then. Taste for flavor and add more water as needed to create desired consistency.
Makes about 2 cups.
Serves 8, 1/4 cup per serving.
Store: Leftover dressing can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 6 – days. Dressing will thicken upon chilling, thin with water if needed.
Instructions
Toast the curry: Heat a large dutch oven or pot (at least a 5 quarts) over medium heat, add the curry powder and toast for about 2 mins. The color will darken slightly and become fragrant. Add the olive oil, and give a good stir, letting the spices sizzle.
Saute: Next, add the onions, apple, garlic, cilantro and ginger, gently saute for 5 mins, stirring occasionally (things are really starting to smell good now!).
Simmer: Add the sweet potatoes, lentils, broth and milk, bring to a gentle boil, cover and reduce heat to low and let simmer for 20 minutes, sweet potatoes should be fork-tender and lentils soft.
Puree: Once done, let cool a few minutes and blend until smooth using an immersion blender. Stir in the lime juice (start with 1/2 lime), check for flavor, adding the remaining 1/2 lime juice, salt & pepper to taste.  Add a tad more milk/water if you prefer a thinner soup.
Serve with chopped cilantro, red pepper flakes, and a drizzle of coconut cream. For extra brightness, add a squeeze of lime over top.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in an airtight container. It’s also freezer friendly and can be stored in the freezer for up to 3 months. Defrost the soup in the refrigerator overnight and reheat on the stovetop over medium heat until warmed through.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Cut and scoop: If using a sugar pumpkin, cut in half, scoop seeds out using a good-sized spoon and discard any orange flesh. If using a large carving pumpkin, cut a circle about 2 – 3 inches away from and around the stem, remove top and scoop out.
Rinse and dry: Place seeds in a colander and rinse well removing any small pieces of pumpkin. Dry excess water from pumpkin seeds using a dish towel or laying the seeds between a few sheets of paper towels.
Season: Place seeds on rimmed baking sheet, add a small glug of olive oil and toss the pumpkin seeds until well coated. Spread evenly in a single layer on the baking sheet and sprinkle with salt and any other desired spices or herbs. 
Roast: Place in oven on the middle rack and bake for 20 – 30 minutes, depending on your oven,  shuffling the seeds every 7 minutes or so. After 20 minutes, keep a close eye on them, as they can burn fast if cooked too long. You may hear some crackling and popping, this is normal. I would tend to suggest going the extra time as long as seeds are not burnt, especially for larger seeds. 
Once done, let cool for 10 minutes and enjoy!
Instructions
Warm mixture: Start by warming the peanut butter, coconut oil, maple syrup, almond milk, vanilla and cacao powder over low heat, stirring constantly until warm and starting to thicken.
Remove from heat and stir in the oats and mix well to coat.
Drop 2 rounded tablespoonfuls of the mixture on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper or Silpat. Shape them nicely and flatten the tops a little if you like, or simply leave them in rustic looking mounds of chocolatey goodness.
Place the cookie sheet in the refrigerator to chill. You can grab one after 30 minutes, but they set up best after 6 hours in the fridge.
Recipe yields about 20 – 24 no bake cookies.
Store the cookies in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks, or freeze for up to 2 months.
NOTES:
*Substitute maple syrup with coconut sugar or pure cane sugar. Just add 2 extra tablespoons of almond milk.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: For scooping, I used this 1.5 tablespoon trigger scooper to create uniform looking cookies. A 2 tablespoon scoop will do fine too. For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Instructions
Saute: In a large dutch oven or pot, heat the oil/water over medium heat, saute the onion, garlic, peppers and tempeh for 5 minutes. Add the chili powder, cumin, paprika, oregano and salt, cook 1 minute, or until nice and fragrant.
Boil and simmer: Add the tomatoes, pasta, beans, corn, and pour the liquids over top, give a good stir. Bring to a boil, cover askew, reduce heat and simmer at a gentle rolling boil for 10 minutes, or until pasta is tender. Season with salt and pepper. Add a bit of cayenne powder for extra heat if you like.
Serve warm with optional toppings.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days in an airtight container. It’s also freezer friendly and can be stored in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Instant Pot: Combine 2 cups of oats with 3 1/2 cups of water (or double the amounts) in the Instant Pot insert. Attach lid, turn to lock, and set valve to SEALING. Manually set to cook for 1 minute on HIGH pressure, and let the pressure natural release for 5 minutes. Total time, including coming to pressure, is about 17 – 20 minutes. Let cool a few minutes. Stir in 1/2 cup of unsweetened plant milk, if needed to thin.
Stovetop: Bring 3 1/2 cups water to a boil in a saucepan, add 2 cups oats, stir well, reduce heat and cook over a gentle boil for 5 – 7 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand for 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in 1/2 cup of unsweetened plant milk, if needed to thin.
Slow Cooker: Combine 2 cups of oats and 3 1/2 cups of water in a slow cooker. Cook on LOW for 8 hours, without stirring. Let cool a few minutes, stir in 1/2 cup of plant milk as needed to thin.
Microwave: Add water and oats to a microwave safe bowl, and microwave on HIGH for 5 – 7 minutes (maybe a little longer if the water is cold), stopping to stir every 45 – 60 seconds. To prevent the oatmeal from boiling over, be sure to use a larger, wider bowl. Let cool a few minutes, stir in 1/2 cup of plant milk as needed to thin.
Serve: Place oatmeal in your serving bowl, top with any one of the combinations above or make your creation, and enjoy!
Serves 3 – 4
Store: Leftover oatmeal can be stored in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days and make for great grab-n-go meals. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator before reheating.
Instructions
Simmer: In a medium pot, add the tomatillos, onion, garlic, jalapeno, and vegetable broth and bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes.
Blend: Let cool a few minutes and gently transfer to a blender. Add the cilantro and/or parsley and process until smooth. Taste for flavor, adding more salt as needed.
Makes about 6 cups
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days in a covered container. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. To freeze, let cool completely and store in freezer safe containers leaving 1/2 inch of head space for expansion. Let thaw in the refrigerator before using.
Instructions
Preheat: Heat griddle as per instructions or if using a large skillet heat over medium to medium-high heat. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 200 degrees F, and place a baking sheet on the middle rack while oven is heating.
Prepare: In a large mixing bowl, add flour, sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg and salt, mix well. Next, add in the applesauce, non-dairy milk and vanilla extract, mix until just combined, do not over mix. Your mixture may seem to swell up a bit due to the baking powder, this is normal.
Clean and quarter an apple, remove the core. Cut into thin slices about 1/8 – 1/4 inch.
Cook: Place 1 teaspoon of oil on the griddle/skillet and spread evenly over the cooking area (I use a silicone brush). Place 2 apple slices on griddle, side by side, where pancake batter is going to cook. Using a 1/4 cup measuring cup, scoop batter and place on top of apple slices. Cook until bubbles form on the top and edges start to look leathery, about 2 1/2 – 3 minutes per side. Flip pancakes, cook another 2 – 3 minutes. Repeat until batter is gone.
Keep Warm: As pancakes finish, place them in the oven on the warm cookie sheet to keep warm until all pancakes are ready.
Serve with pure maple syrup. A few fresh apple slices would also be great to serve.
Makes about 8 pancakes. Serves 2 – 3
Store leftover pancakes in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a week, or freeze for up to 2 months. Reheat in the oven at 350 degrees for 10 minutes. Alternatively, warm in the microwave for 1 – 2 minutes.
Instructions
Veggies: Amounts for the vegetables will vary on how many your making, use your best judgement on how much you will need. 1 medium zucchini will make about 10 thin strips. If you can’t find sprouts or micro greens, try using cilantro or fresh basil leaves.
Kale pesto: Place ingredients into food processor and process until desired consistency. Taste for seasoning.
Assemble: Lay your zucchini flat on a hard surface, layer with the pesto, place sprouts and 1 of each veggie in a mound on one end. Roll into a wrap and stick with a toothpick in the center. Top with mineral salt & cracked pepper. 
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. The zucchini will soften a bit after a day or so. For best presentation, serve right away or within a few hours of making.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or silicone mat.
Prep produce: Prepare vegetables, toss with olive oil right on the roasting pan or rimmed cookie sheet (line with parchment paper or use a silpat if you rather but tossing with oil on the cookie sheet with also grease your pan). 
Roast: Place baking sheet in the oven for 40 minutes, stirring once or twice, cooking until squash is fork tender. Remove any onion or garlic that seem to be over roasting and set aside. Once done, remove and let cool for 10 to 15 min.
Puree your soup one of two ways:
Immersion Blender: Place roasted vegetables, liquids and salt in large pot, use a hand held stick blender to blend until smooth. Depending on how much squash you actually used, add more liquid as needed for desired consistency. Cook on medium low until heated through. Taste for seasoning.
Regular Blender: Place squash and shallots in blender/food processor and blend until creamy. In large pot place blended mix and add water and salt. Cook on medium low until heated through adding more liquid as needed and taste for seasoning.
Serve as you like topped with seeds, herbs and spices or leave it simple as is. 
I topped mine with parsley and red pepper flakes for a little heat. A little Coconut Bacon on top may be a nice variation too.
Pair with a simple sandwich or make homemade Artisan Bread or Vegan Naan Bread.
Serves 4
Instructions
In a large dutch oven/pot, heat oil or water over medium heat, add onions and saute for 5 minutes. Add garlic, carrots, mushrooms, red pepper flakes and oregano, saute for 4 minutes, or until mushrooms begin to soften.
Add lentils, tomatoes, vegetable broth and wine, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 30 – 40 minutes, until lentils are tender. Add more water/broth or wine as needed.
Cook pasta according to package directions.
Serve ragu over pasta. Top with chopped parsley and a light dusting of Almond Parmesan.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in a covered container. To keep longer, store in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Prep tofu-tempeh: Drain tofu and place between a clean folded dish towel, place a medium pot on top for about 10 minutes to remove excess water. If using super firm tofu, skip this step. Once done, cube into 3/4 – 1 inch cubes. Cube the tempeh as well.
Make teriyaki sauce: In a small saucepan, add the tamari, water, maple syrup/sugar, ginger and garlic, bring to a boil, reduce heat and cook on low for 1 minutes. In a small bowl, mix together the cornstarch/tapioca powder with the water until smooth. Add the mixture to the teriyaki sauce and cook another minute, or until sauce thickens. Remove from heat, cover and set aside. Taste for flavor. If you like your teriyaki sauce on the sweeter side, add an extra tablespoon or two of your preferred sweetener.
Bake tofu-tempeh: In a 9×13 casserole or baking dish, add tofu and tempeh, drizzle with 1 cup of teriyaki sauce and gently toss to coat. Place in oven on middle rack and bake for 20 – 25 minutes. Turn down oven to 350 degrees F.
Cook rice: Cook rice according to package directions. I used basmati rice here which only took 20 minutes total to cook. Rice may vary in cooking time, some take as long as 40 minutes. If making a longer cooking rice you may like to start it earlier.
Steam veggies: Steam the veggies using a bamboo steamer, microwave or whatever is your preferred method.
Combine everything: In dish the tofu-tempeh cooked in, scoot the tofu and tempeh to one side, add the cooked rice and steamed vegetables. Pour most of the remaining teriyaki sauce overtop, reserving a little for serving, toss to combine. Enjoy as is or continue to next step to warm through if needed.
Bake: Place in preheated oven set to 350 degrees, uncovered, for about 10 – 15 minutes to heat through as needed (feel free to skip this step).
Serve: Place in individual bowls and top with a little remaining sauce. Would also be great with a sprinkle of toasted sesame seeds over top. Enjoy!
Serves 4 generously, or 6 – 8 smaller portions
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Heat oil over medium heat, add onion and saute for 3 – 4 minutes, and mushrooms and cook another 5 minutes, stirring occasionally until some of mushroom liquid cooks away and they start to brown. 
Add the white wine and boil for a couple minutes. Add kale, and continue cooking until soft, about 4 minutes. 
Add the cream and milk, let simmer for several more minutes. Turn off heat. (If you have time, leave this mixture to steep; the cream and milk will get wonderfully mushroomy.) Season with salt and pepper.
Transfer the mixture to a shallow baking dish. Place in the oven and bake for about 25 minutes, or until golden and bubbly. Top with a light dusting of almond parmesan.
Serve over a bed of farro, barley, white or brown rice, pasta or pasta of choice. Top with a tad more almond parmesan and salt & pepper to taste. Enjoy with the rest of the wine or a nice glass of lemon water.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line a roasting pan with parchment paper or lightly grease your pan.
Roast Squash: Combine squash with 1 tablespoon olive oil and maple syrup (either do this in a medium sized bowl or right on the baking sheet for one less dish to wash). Spread butternut squash on baking sheet in a single layer, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste. Cook for 30 minutes, stirring half way through, or until squash is fork tender. Remove from oven and let cool a bit.
Dressing: In a small bowl mix together the olive oil, vinegar and mustard. Blend until mustard has emulsified. Add in water shallots, salt & pepper and whisk again until combined. Set aside.
Assemble: Fill your serving dish with salad of choice, add butternut squash, top with cranberries and pepitas. Drizzle your dressing over top and serve.
Makes 3 generous serving, or 6 smaller portions.
NOTES:
Feel free to use raisins or pomegranates seeds in place of cranberries.
Use pecans, walnuts or almonds in place of the pumpkin seeds if you prefer.
Try adding the cranberries with the butternut squash for the last 5 minutes of cooking to warm them up a bit.
Feel free to warm your dressing just before serving, or keep near a warm spot by the stove until ready to serve.
To make an oil free vinaigrette for this salad, use 1/4 – 1/3 cup apple juice or apple cider in place of the oil and water. When cooking the butternut squash, simply omit the oil.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love my Silpat or these parchment liners for lining this rimmed baking sheet (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials!
Instructions
Matcha seasoning: In a small bowl, whisk together the matcha, sugar, and tea from the tea bags. Set aside.
Stock pot:
In a large stock pot, heat oil over medium high to high heat. Once the oil has melted, add popcorn kernels, swirl the pot to coat the kernels. 
Cover, shake every 10 seconds or so to move the kernels around. You want to move them around so they don’t burn on the bottom. You should hear continual popping about 3 minutes in, at this time you can stop shaking, listen for the slow down of popping. 
Turn heat off, uncover, add seasoning, cover and carefully shake the pot every which way to coat your popcorn. Lift lid, if you have a lot of seasoning on the lid and sides of the pot, use a flat edge spatula to scrape it off and mix it in.
Popcorn maker:
Add popcorn, cook as directed and move to a large bowl. 
In a small bowl, melt coconut oil. 
Once popcorn is done, drizzle with oil and top with seasoning, toss to coat well.
Serve warm or at room temperature. 
Makes about 12 to 14 cups.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in airtight containers for 7 – 14 days.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, whisk the mayo, apple cider vinegar, mustard, sugar, salt, and pepper.
Assemble: Add the cabbage and carrots in a very large mixing bowl, the larger the better. Pour the dressing all over the cabbage, and toss well to combine. Finish with salt & pepper to taste.
Serve right away, or let the coleslaw rest in the fridge for at least 30 minutes before serving.
Store leftovers in the refrigerator in an airtight container for up to 5 days, but it’s best within 3 days.
Instructions
In a medium size bowl, combine the milk and pumpkin puree, set aside.
In a large pan, heat oil over medium, add shallot and saute for 4 minutes, add garlic, sausage, kale and thyme, cook until kale softens, stirring occasionally, about 3 – 4 minutes. 
Turn heat to medium-low, add the pumpkin mixture, and give a good stir. Add in the zucchini noodles, using tongs, mix to coat, place the cover askew and let simmer 4 – 5 minutes, or until zucchini has become al dente, stirring occasionally. If the sauce is bubbling too much, reduce heat to low. Taste for flavor adding salt & pepper to taste.
Pairs great with a dusting of almond parmesan and slice of your favorite artisan bread.
Serves 3 – 4
NOTES:
Try using mushrooms in place of the sausage if you like. Simply add the mushroom with the shallots and cook until mushrooms have just started to sweat down. Continue with the kale and thyme, and so on…
Spiralized sweet potato would be great here too!
Use your favorite pasta. There’s enough sauce for about 12 – 16 oz. of pasta. Cook the pasta according to package directions and add it in the recipe in place of the zucchini. Easy peasy!
If you have garlic and powder on hand, try adding a dash or two. It will ensure full flavor.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: For spiralizing zucchini noodles I love use this spiralizer , and for straight noodles use a hand held julienne tool. For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Instructions
Saute: In a large stock pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat, add onion, carrots, celery and herbs, cook for 5 – 6 minutes, stirring frequently.
Simmer: Add the chickpeas, pasta, and liquids to the pot, bring to a boil, reduce heat to a gentle simmer, and cook for 6 – 7 minutes, or until pasta is al dente.
Season: Finally, stir in the chopped parsley, and season with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve: Ladle into individual bowls and serve with lemon wedges for squeezing. The lemon is highly recommended and will add a delicious spark of flavor, trust me! Add a little more fresh parsley to garnish.
This soup is perfect with homemade Artisan Bread or Vegan Naan for dipping!
Serves 4 generously, or 8 smaller portions.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. It’s also freezer friendly and can be kept for up to 2 – 3 months in the freezer.
Instructions
If using wooden skewers, soak them in water for 10 – 30 minutes.
Preheat the grill or grill pan to medium high.
In a small bowl, combine the olive oil, dijon and pepper, mix well. Set aside.
Skewer the sausage and veggies however you like. I started with the kielbasa, red pepper, onion, green pepper, zucchini, and repeat until skewer is full.
Brush each kabob with the dijon dressing.
Grill skewers for 10 – 12 minutes, turning once or twice, or until vegetables are tender. Brush will any remaining oil mixture as needed.
Serve with sides of choice. It’s great with grilled corn and Baked Beans, Vegan Potato Salad or Classic Vegan Coleslaw.
Makes 12 small kabobs or 8 regular sized.
NOTES:
Add more dijon mustard if you like, 1 – 2 teaspoons more is great. This peppery mustard mixture is great brushed on corn before grilling too!
Instructions
Pumpkin: Prepare your pumpkin by slicing in half, removing seeds with a spoon and slice halves into quarters. Using a vegetable peeler, remove the hard skin. Alternatively, turn slices on their sides and carefully sheer the hard skin off from top to bottom. Cube into 1 inch pieces.
Saute: In a large dutch oven or pot, heat oil over medium-high heat, add onions and cook until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add garlic, ginger and spices, cook another minute or until fragrant.
Simmer: Add carrots, sweet potatoes, pumpkin, tomatoes, chickpeas, broth/water, good pinch of salt and raisins, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 30 – 40 minutes, or until pumpkin is fork tender. 
Add spinach: Add in greens of choice and cook until wilted. Taste for seasoning adding salt, pepper or any other additional spices or raisins.
Serve: In individual serving bowls, spoon stew over a grain of choice – rice, quinoa or couscous work well here. Top with cilantro and squeeze of lemon/lime. Pairs great with a piece of vegan naan.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers are even better and can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Chickpeas: Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper, a silpat, or light grease with coconut or olive oil.
Drain and rinse chickpeas. Gently pat dry, they don’t have to be completely dry. In a medium size mixing bowl, place the chickpeas, oil, turmeric, cumin and salt, mix well to coat. Place chickpeas on baking sheet in a single layer. Place in oven for 40 – 45 minutes, stirring once. Set aside to cool.
Soup: In a large dutch oven/pot, heat oil over medium heat, add onions and cook for 5 minutes. Add carrots, sweet potato and coriander, cook for 1 minute or so, add broth/water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes, or until carrots and potatoes are fork tender. Remove from heat and let cool for 10 minutes.
Puree the soup using an immersion blender. Alternately, you can use either a blender or food processor (may take 2 batches to complete). Add extra water as needed to thin. Reheat on low until warmed through if needed.
To Serve: Serve topped with roasted chickpeas and chopped cilantro. A small handful of micro-greens are great too! Pair with your favorite artisan bread.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
In a large pan, heat oil over medium heat, add the onions, potatoes and kielbasa, and cook uncovered for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Add bell peppers and cook another 10 – 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, just until al dente or cook a little longer if you prefer everything softer. 
Remove from heat, at this point if your potatoes aren’t quite tender enough for you, cover with the lid and let steam a bit. Season with plenty of salt & pepper.
Serve with grilled corn on the cob and a fresh House Salad. Would be great with these Baked Beans, Vegan Potato Salad or Classic Vegan Coleslaw, making a terrific well-balanced lunch or dinner!
Instructions
Prep the tofu: Place the block of tofu between a clean dish towel, gently press down on top and along the edges so the towel absorbs the moisture. Cut the tofu into 3/4 inch cubes.
Marinate the tofu: Add 2 tablespoons tamari, 2 teaspoons dark sesame oil, black pepper and red pepper flakes to a medium-sized bowl, add tofu and gently fold together until tofu is coated. Let tofu marinate while preparing the other ingredients.
Stir-fry sauce: To make the sauce, whisk together 3 tablespoons water, 3 tablespoons soy sauce, 3 tablespoons rice vinegar, 3 tablespoons maple syrup, and 1 tablespoon dark sesame oil in a small-medium bowl.
Brown tofu: Heat 1 tablespoon regular oil in a wok or large saute pan over medium-high heat. Add marinated tofu in a single layer in the pan and cook without moving for 2 – 3 minutes. Stir the tofu and cook for 2 – 3 minutes, stir once again and cook for 2 minutes. Transfer tofu to a plate.
Stir-fry veggies: Turn heat down to medium and add 1 tablespoon regular oil. Add red chili peppers, stir-fry for 1 minute. Add the onion and stir-fry 1 minute. Add bell peppers and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add zucchini, garlic, ginger, and cook for 1 minute.
Add tofu & sauce: Add the tofu back to the pan. Add the sauce to the pan and allow to heat and bubble, about 1 to 2 minutes.
Add slurry mix: Make a cornstarch slurry by mixing together 2 teaspoons cornstarch and 1 tablespoon water. Add to the pan, stirring to combine, continue stirring until the sauce is thickened, about 1 minute.
Serve: Serve with rice or quinoa. Garnish kung pao tofu with peanuts and sliced green onions.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Noodles: Cook noodles according to package directions. Set aside.
Stir-fry: In wok or dutch oven, stir fry the mushrooms and carrots over medium-high heat with 1 tablespoon sesame oil or water/veggie broth for 3- 4 minutes.
Add remaining ingredients: Turn down the heat to medium-low, add water, bok choy, carrot, sugar snap peas, optional ginger & tofu, miso and chili paste. Cook over low heat for about 10 – 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, or until bok choy is tender.
Assemble miso noodle bowls: In each serving dish, place one serving of noodles along with veggies and spicy miso broth. Top with scallions, toasted sesame seeds and cilantro. Add more chili paste or sriracha to taste.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days. Reheat on the stove or in the microwave.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 12 cup muffin tin with liners.
Mix: In a medium mixing bowl, mix together the flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. Add the pumpkin puree, applesauce, vanilla and non-dairy milk, mix well (shown above). Don’t overmix.
Fill muffin tin: Add batter by the large spoonful to lined 12 cup muffin tin, filling to the rim (shown above). Sprinkle with the optional chopped pepitas.
Bake: Place on the center rake in the oven and bake for 20 – 25 minutes. To test for doneness, stick a toothpick in the center and it should come out clean. Let muffins cool a few minutes, move to wire rack.
Makes 12 muffins.
Store: Keep leftovers muffins on the counter in a covered container for up to 3 – 4 days. Keep longer in the refrigerator for 6 – 7 days.
To freeze, let muffins cool completely, and keep in freezer safe containers or baggies for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator or on the counter.
Instructions
Add almonds to high-speed blender or food processor blend until creamy, stopping frequently to scrape down the sides as needed. If adding in extra ingredients, please do so after you have achieved a creamy consistency.
The total time from beginning to end may take 15 to 25 min, depending on your machine.
Makes 2 cups
Instructions
Spices: In a small bowl, mix your spices. Feel free to use heaping measurements.
Heat oil: In a large stock pot, add coconut oil, cover and heat over medium high heat for about 2 1/2 minutes. 
Add popcorn: Pour popcorn into pot and cover with lid, let cook for 2 – 3 minutes, carefully shaking the pot back and forth almost continuously. Popcorn will be done when you don’t hear kernels popping for 5 – 10 seconds.
Add spice: Once popping comes to a minimum, lift lid, add spices, cover tightly, carefully lift pot and tilt, round and round, upside down, every which way you can.
Serve: Enjoy right from the pot or pour popcorn in a large bowl or small individual bowls.
Makes about 12 to 14 cups
Store: Leftovers can be stored in containers or ziplock baggies for 1 – 2 weeks. Be sure to remove as much as possible, and keep moisture away, to keep it from going stale too soon.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 
Cut the fennel. Slice the stalks and ends off. Discard wilted or discolored outer layers. Slice down the center, lengthwise, slice two halves in half. Slice thinly into 1/4 inch strips.
Make the simple olive spread. Add the olives and lemon juice to the cup of a blender (I used a small personal blender), and blend until roughly combined.
Spread dough on baking sheet.Place the dough on a well oiled baking sheet, let rest for 30 minutes, covered. Spread the dough, using the heel of your hand, and shape into a rectangular (or any shape you prefer).
Layer the ingredients.Spread a thin layer of the olive mix on the dough (you may have leftovers). Top with beans, fennel, capers, fennel seeds, red pepper flakes, salt & pepper.
Bake the flatbread. Bake for 20 – 25 minutes, until edges are golden and bottom is crisp.
Let cool a few minutes and slice. Top with chopped parsley. 
Serve with a light dusting of almond parmesan.
Serves 2 – 3 as a meal or 4 – 6 as an appetizer.
Instructions
Lentil-Quinoa Mix: In a medium saucepan, add the water, lentils, quinoa, cumin, garlic & onion powder, salt and red pepper flakes, bring to a boil, cover and simmer for 20 minutes. Remove from heat, add in chopped parsley and scallions, let rest for 10 minutes. If you feel it’s too dry, add a couple tablespoons of water. Mixture should be creamy, not dry. Add extra spices to taste.
Tahini sauce: In a small bowl, whisk together the tahini, water, lemon, salt, red pepper flakes and parsley. Set aside.
Assemble wraps: Lay lavash bread on a flat surface. Spread a tablespoon or so of chili paste, about 1 1/2 inches from the edge on the first 1/3 portion from top to bottom, leaving an inch on both ends. Layer with about 1/2 cup lentil & quinoa mix and cabbage, fold over and roll. Slice in half and serve with a drizzle of tahini sauce on each bite.
For tacos, warm your tortillas, layer with lentil & quinoa mix, micro greens or cabbage, add chili paste and tahini dressing to taste and sliced avocado.
Serve warm, chilled or at room temperature.
Store: Wraps can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
In a large dutch oven or heavy pot, heat 1 tablespoon oil over medium-high heat, add mushrooms and pearl onions, sear until they begin to take on a little coloring, about 3 to 4 minutes.
Reduce heat to medium, add the carrots, onions, garlic, thyme, salt and pepper, saute for 5 to 7 minutes, stirring occasionally, until onions are lightly browned.
Slowly add the red wine to the pot and scrap any bits that are stuck to the bottom or sides. Turn heat to medium-high and reduce wine by half. 
Stir in tomato paste and broth, bring to a boil, reduce heat to low and simmer for 20 minutes, or until mushrooms are very tender. Let simmer, covered or cover askewed, stirring occasionally and enjoy the wonderful aroma.
In a small bowl, mix together the remaining tablespoon oil, or water, with flour to make a paste, stir into the stew. Simmer for 10 minutes. If the sauce is too thin, boil it down to the right consistency. Season to taste.
Serve spooned over a bed of farro, pasta of choice, oven roasted red potatoes or mashed potatoes.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Prepare your salad ingredients and set aside.
In a small saucepan over low heat, add the garlic, black olives/capers and optional red pepper flakes and cook, stirring often, for about 7 minutes. The garlic should soften and the flavors will permeate the oil nicely. Add in the lemon juice and gently cook for another 2-3 minutes. Taste for seasoning adding salt and pepper as needed. Remove from heat.
Arrange your salad on serving dishes and spoon the warm bagna cauda over top and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve with a slice of your favorite artisan bread. Bagna cauda is delicious on bread!
Serves 2
NOTES
Bagna cauda can also be made raw and served at room temperature. Combine the bagna cauda ingredients in a small bowl. Mash the olives and capers a bit to allow the juices to escape, let the mixture sit for an hour or two before serving. Serve as a dip or dressing with raw vegetables like fennel, zucchini, tomatoes, endive, arugula, radishes, carrots, cauliflower, celery and bell peppers to name a few.
Instructions
Prep: Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or silicone mat.
Dry ingredients: In a medium mixing bowl, combine the oats, pecans, pepitas and spices.
Wet ingredients: In a measuring cup or small bowl, mix together the pumpkin puree and maple syrup.
Mix wet & dry: Pour the wet mixture into the dry ingredients, mix well to combine.
Layer: Spread the granola on rimmed baking sheet in a single layer.
Bake: Place in the oven at bake for 40 – 50 minutes, stirring half way through. Let cool, granola will harden as it cools.
Makes about 4 1/2 – 5 cups. Serves 16, about 1/3 cup per serving.
Store: Keep granola in a mason jar or an airtight container for up to a 1 – 2 months.
NOTES:
Additional add-ins:
1 – 2 teaspoon vanilla extract (mix in with wet ingredients)
1/2 cup coconut flakes (add to dry ingredients)
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love my Silpat or these parchment liners for lining this rimmed baking sheet. For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials!
Instructions
Flax egg: Start by mixing the flax eggs. In a small bowl, combine flax meal with water and let set for about 10 minutes. It will become gelatin like in the meantime.
Combine dry ingredients: In a bowl add the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, salt, espresso powder and sugar, mix until well combined. Set aside.
Melt Chocolate + Oil: 
Saucepan: In a saucepan over low heat, add chocolate and coconut oil, cook, stir frequently until mixture begins to melt, then stirring constantly until it is completely melted. Add beer and stir. 
Microwave: In a microwave safe bowl add the chocolate and coconut oil. Microwave on high for 20 seconds, stir and repeat until melted. Don’t over heat or the chocolate will seize. Add beer and stir.
Add remaining wet ingredients: Add the flax eggs and vanilla to the chocolate and stir until well combined.
Combine the wet & dry ingredients: Add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and stir until just combined, some lumps are OK.
Chill: Cover and refrigerate until the dough has set, about 3 hours and up to 36. Overnight refrigeration is recommended.
Prep: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment, silpat or lightly grease with coconut oil. Place powdered sugar in a small bowl.
Scoop and roll: Using a cookie dough scoop or ice cream scoop, make balls just a bit smaller than golf balls, roll into shape with your hands. Place dough balls into powdered sugar, roll until well coated. Place sugared cookies on prepared cookie sheet.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 8 – 10 minutes or until edges have set.
Makes 24 cookies.
Store cookies in a loosely covered container for 3 – 4 days.
Notes:
*You won’t experience much of a difference if you don’t use any espresso powder and will still have a winning cookie.
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love my Silpat or these parchment liners for lining this rimmed baking sheet (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials!
Instructions
Bring 3 cups water to a boil, add tea, cinnamon, cloves, peppercorns, lavender, ginger, cardamom and nutmeg, turn heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Turn of heat and let cool 10 minutes. Remove tea bags. Add vanilla and maple syrup, give a good stir. Strain out the large ingredients and place in container of choice.
In a glass or mug/cup, pour tea concentrate to about 1/3 – 1/2 full, fill remaining with water or milk. Would be great with a little Vegan Cream stirred in!
Serve warm or iced.
Store leftover tea in the refrigerator, use within one week.
Makes about 4 – 6 servings
Instructions
In large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon oil and cook onions and bell peppers until onions are softened, about 5 minutes. Add potatoes, herbs, spices and remaining oil, cook on medium to medium low heat, uncovered, for about 25 – 30 minutes stirring occasionally. You want the potatoes to brown and crisp a little on the edges. Be sure to scrap the bottom of the skillet as well to get all the pieces that may stick to the bottom, they will add nice flavor and some crispy texture to your dish. 
Season with plenty of salt and pepper. Serve right away.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot, heat oil on medium, add onions and saute for five minutes, or until softened. 
Add remaining ingredients: Add tomatoes, water, curry, basil, red pepper flakes and salt, turn heat to medium high, bring to boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer for 15 minutes. 
Coconut milk: If you want a creamy soup, add the coconut milk/cream after 10 minutes of simmering, continue to simmer for five more minutes. Or you can add a few spoonfuls to the individual serving bowl. Once done, taste for flavor adding extra spices as needed.
Puree: Once soup is done, remove from heat, let cool a few minutes and puree using a submersion blender or food processor (if using a food processor you may have to puree in a couple batches).
While soup is cooking or cooling, julienne or spiralize your zucchini. No need to cook as these will be served raw and warm a bit once the soup is served over top.
Serves 4
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Line a muffin tin using 10 liners.
Flax egg: In a small bowl combine 2 tablespoons flaxseed meal with 6 tablespoons water. Let set for 10 min to thicken.
Topping: In a small bowl, combine the sugar and cinnamon, set aside.
Combine dry ingredients: In a large bowl, combine the almond flour, oats, salt, baking powder and cinnamon, give a stir to mix.
Add in the wet ingredients: To the dry ingredients, add the flax egg, maple syrup, oil, plant milk and vanilla, mix until just combined. Stir in the apples, mix again. Batter will not be runny and should be on the thicker side.
Fill muffin tin: Scoop and fill each muffin cup just to the top. Sprinkle with cinnamon sugar topping. Bake for 20 minutes, or until toothpick comes out clean and muffins are lightly browned on top. Let cool a bit, remove muffins to finish cooling on a cooling rack.
Makes 10 muffins
Storing: Freshly baked muffins will keep well loosely covered, on the counter for 4 – 5 days. Or once completely cooled, keep them in the refrigerator for up to 8 – 10 days. If storing in a container, let muffins cool completely before storing.
Instructions
Lentils: In a medium size pot, bring water, lentils, bay leafs and garlic powder to a boil. Cover, reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes. We want them tender but still holding their shape. Remove from heat, let cool a few minutes and drain.
Dressing: While lentils are cooking start your vinaigrette. In a small bowl, whisk together the olive oil, balsamic vinegar, dijon mustard, lemon juice, salt & pepper. Set aside. 
Produce: Next, prepare your greens and remaining salad ingredients using as much or little as you like.
Serve: Prepare your salad by laying your greens first, then add 2/3 – 3/4 cup or so of lentils and toss gently. Top with tomatoes, scallions and a good sprinkling of mineral salt and fresh cracked pepper. Or simply lay your greens and top with lentils and remaining salad ingredients without tossing at all if you rather. No rules here, do what feels best for you!
Store: Leftover lentils can be stored in the refrigerator for another salad or usage of choice.
Instructions
Buttermilk: In a measuring cup, add milk and lemon juice, let set for 10 minutes.
Preheat griddle to manufacturers setting for pancakes. Once hot add 1 tablespoon or so of coconut oil and spread to coat griddle.
Mix: In a medium sized mixing bowl, add flour, sugar, baking powder, cinnamon and salt, mix well. Add in vegan buttermilk and mix to combine. These are thicker pancakes, for thinner pancakes, add up to 1/4 cup more milk to the batter.
Pour and cook: Using a 1/4 cup measuring cup, scoop up batter and place on griddle. Once the top forms bubbles and sides look a little leathery, about 2 – 3 minutes, flip and cook the other side for 2 -3 minutes.
Serve with berries of choice and pure maple syrup. You may even like to top with this Blueberry Compote (it’s really easy to make and delicious!).
Makes 8 pancakes. Serves 2 generously or 4 smaller plates.
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse your quinoa and place in a medium saucepan with water. Bring to boil over medium high heat, cover, reduce heat and simmer on low for 15 minutes. Once done, remove cover and let set for 10 minutes. Fluff with a fork.
Kale: While your quinoa is cooking, place the chopped kale in a medium size bowl or on a chopping board, drizzle with the juice of one lemon and mix occasionally. This will help massage and soften the kale a bit, reducing it’s bitterness.
Assemble: Once quinoa is done, combine the prepped veggies and kale, along with lemon pepper and salt to taste. Squeeze the juice of the remaining lemon on top and drizzle with optional oil, mix once more. 
Serve at room temperature or chilled. This is a salad you can eat with a spoon!
Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days.
Serves 4
Instructions
Soak cashews: Cover cashews with hot water and soak for 5 –  10 minutes. Alternately, soak them for 2 – 3 hours in cool water. Soaking will aid in digestion.
Blend: Using a high speed blender or small personal blender, add the ingredients to the cup of your preferred blender and blend until creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides every now and then. If using optional add-ins, stir them in.
Enjoy vegan cream cheese right away or let chill in the refrigerator before serving.
Makes about 1 cup
Store: Leftovers will keep for 5 – 6 days in the refrigerator. For longer storage, it will keep in the freezer for up to 2 months. Let thaw in the refrigerator before using.
Instructions
Stovetop (see notes for more cooking options): 
Saute: In large dutch oven or pot, heat water/olive oil over medium heat. Add onion, carrots, celery, and garlic, saute for 5 minutes. Add the paprika, curry, and cumin, saute 1 minute, or until fragrant.
Simmer: Add the green beans, tomatoes, potatoes, lentils, and liquids, give a good stir and bring to a boil, turn heat to low, cover askew and simmer for 30 – 35 minutes, stirring occasionally. 
Add greens: 5 minutes before soup is done, stir in the greens. Add more water if needed, maybe up to 1 cup. Add lemon juice and season with salt & pepper. 
Serve: Ladle into soup bowls and top with a sprinkle of fresh chopped parsley and squeeze of lemon juice for an extra touch of brightness. Pairs great with homemade vegan cornbread, vegan naan or artisan bread. 
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. store covered. To keep longer, store in the freezer in freezer-safe containers for 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Heat oil or water over medium heat, add onion and carrot, saute for about 5 – 7 minutes, add the garlic and saute for 1 minute more.
Add the broth or water, bring to a boil, add the orzo and chickpeas, reduce heat to medium-low and cook at a gentle boil for 8- 9 minutes, orzo should be tender.
Remove from heat, add tahini and lemon juice (start with the smaller amount of juice, adding more to taste), stir well. Add the baby kale or spinach, give a good stir, greens will soften and wilt within a few minutes. Add as much dill as you like, and season well with salt & pepper. Soup will thicken upon standing, add more liquids as needed.
Serve in individual bowl with your favorite crusty artisan bread for soaking up the wonderful juices.
Serves 4
Instructions
Cauliflower Rice: If using a head of cauliflower, grate cauliflower using a handheld grater or the grater on your food processor. Alternately, place cauliflower in a food processor and pulse until it resembles rice. (If using prepackaged cauliflower rice or pearls, skip this step.)
Heat 3 tablespoons water in a pan over medium-high, add cauliflower bits and saute, stirring constantly, for about 4 – 5 minutes. Remove from heat, add rice vinegar and mix well. Set aside, let cool completely.
Assemble: Fill a little bowl with water and keep handy. Place a nori sheet, shiny side down, on the bamboo mat. On the edge closest to you, layer and press the cauliflower rice on 2/3 of the sheet.
Add the mango, avocado, cucumber and red cabbage lengthwise, leaving about 1 inch on the end.
Start rolling the nori, folding over the mango, avocado, cucumber and cabbage, give a good press to secure, and continue to roll. Using the water, wet your finger and dab the top end of the nori with water to seal. Let rest a few minutes before cutting, nori will soften and the seal will dry. Repeat, until ingredients are gone.
Using a clean, sharp knife, cut into 6 even rounds, total of 8 pieces. You may need to wipe clean the knife after each cut.
Serve with Dynamite sauce, or dipping sauce of choice.
Serves 3
Instructions
Start by mixing your dressing. In a small bowl combine dressing ingredients. Set aside. After five minutes or so, taste for flavor adding anything extra you might like. (You may also consider mixing the dressing on the bottom of the bowl you will be mixing your coleslaw in leaving one less dish to wash.)
In a large mixing bowl, add cabbage, carrots, scallions, peperoncinis. Drizzle with dressing and mix to combine. Add salt & fresh cracked pepper to taste. 
Serve at room temp or chilled. This is a great salad to make ahead and let set covered an hour or so on the counter or in the refrigerator for longer.
Serve with a sprinkle of white sesame seeds over top.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Onions: Heat the oil/water in a nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add the onions and saute for 10-15 minutes, stirring every few minutes. Add a little bit of water/veggie broth and let it sizzle and evaporate. Keep stirring every so often, add more liquids. After about 25 – 30 minutes, onions should be caramelized and fragrant.
Mix: Combine the vegan sour cream with the garlic & onion powder and Worcestershire sauce. Add the onions and mix well. Taste for seasoning.
Serve: Serve topped with chopped parsley. Pair your french onion dip with chips, crackers, and/or sliced vegetables.
Makes about 1 3/4 cups.
Store leftovers, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 6 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 
Prep + roast cauliflower: Cut cauliflower into florets. Lay in a single layer on a large rimmed baking sheet. Add a drizzle of oil and toss to coat. Roast in the oven for 40 minutes, mixing the cauliflower around half way through. Remove from oven, let cool.
Curry dressing: In a small bowl, mix together the ingredients for the dressing. Set aside to let the flavors develop. Taste for seasoning adding anything extra you might like.
Quinoa: See notes if making quinoa from scratch, or use this quick + easy Instant Pot Quinoa recipe.
Assemble: In a large mixing bowl, combine quinoa, cauliflower, apple, raisins, shredded coconut and dressing, toss well to coat.
Serve at room temperature or chilled.
Serves 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Simmer: In a dutch oven or large pot, steel cut oats, spices, salt, and water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove from heat, give a good stir, add more water as needed. 
Rest overnight: Let cool, fill individual mason jars (or other containers), cover, and let sit overnight in the fridge. Alternatively, keep it in the pot you cooked it in, cover, and keep in the fridge overnight.
Fill jars: The next day fill your jars with a mix of toppings for grab & go time or simply top each jar when ready to eat.
I prefer to eat my breakfast jars at room temp but you can heat yours either in the microwave for a minute or two, or use a heated pot of water setting the mason jar in the center until warmed.
This will fill 4 – 6 pint-sized mason jars with plenty of toppings. Wide mouths are preferred as it’s much easier to spoon out of for eating.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Keep breakfast jars in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Place the diced mango, bell pepper, onion, jalapeno and cilantro in a medium/large mixing bowl. Add a pinch of salt and squeeze of lime juice over top, gently toss to coat.
Enjoy right away or let it rest for 30 minutes so flavors can mingle.
Serve with chips, or as a condiment or side to any complimentary meal, such as bean tacos, bean & quinoa/rice burritos, and various vegan bowl meals.
Store leftovers in a sealed container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days, or freeze for up to 2 months.
Serves 6
Instructions
King Oyster Mushroom Scallops: Gently wash and dry the mushrooms. Slice into about 1/2 inch pieces. Heat oil over medium heat in a 4 qt. pan or pot (pref. wide bottomed so the dry noodles can lay flat), add mushrooms and cook until golden on each side, about 6 – 8 minutes total. After cooking a few minutes, add about 2 tablespoons of water to the pan, repeat as needed when water has evaporated. This will help keep them moist looking. You may also like to season them with a splash of coconut amino’s, low sodium tamari or pinch of salt when adding the water. Once done, reserve mushrooms on a small plate until later.
Vegan Cream: In a small blender, place the cashews, almond milk, lemon juice and pinch of salt, process until creamy. Add 1 tablespoon milk at a time as needed to thin. Set aside.
Pasta: In same pot, heat remaining oil over medium heat, add garlic and red pepper flakes, saute for about 1 minute, or until garlic is golden in color. Add broth and fettuccine, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to a semi-rigorous rolling boil and cook, stirring occasionally for about 13 – 14 minutes (if using different pasta, cooking times with vary so check the package directions for cooking times). About 4 minutes before pasta is done, add the peas and continue to cook. A little broth left at the end of cooking is ok (about 1/4 cup), it will add to the creaminess when the cream is added. If more than 1/4 cup, keep cooking to reduce the liquids. Once done, add the juice of 1 lemon, heavy cream, mushrooms, salt and fresh cracked pepper to taste, stir to combine. Serve warm.
Serve: Place pasta in individual bowls, top with chopped parsley, a little fresh cracked pepper and enjoy!
Serves 3 generously.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or silicone mat.
Tofu: If using high protein tofu, there is no need to press. If using extra-firm or firm, let the tofu rest on its side in the tub it came in for about 10 minutes to drain. Cut the tofu into 6 rectangular slabs.
Trim asparagus: Slice or snap the ends of the asparagus.
Layer on baking sheet: Place the tofu slabs on a lined rimmed baking sheet. Add the asparagus in between the tofu as shown above, drizzle with a little olive oil, then add lemon slices overtop. Sprinkle with plenty of lemon pepper and generous pinch of salt.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 20 minutes, rotating the baking sheet half way through.
Serve with grain of choice, add a little lemon zest and more lemon pepper to taste.
Serves 3 – 6
Store: Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400F.
Roast: Place sweet potato and chickpeas on a large rimmed baking sheet lined with a silpat, parchment paper or lightly greased. Drizzle with oil, toss to coat. Sprinkle a few dashes of salt, garlic and chili powder of choice over top. Place in the oven and roast for about 25 – 30 min, stirring once halfway through, potatoes will be ready when they are fork tender. Ovens vary so your cooking time may be more or less.
Crispy shallots: Heat remaining oil in a small/medium pan over medium heat, add shallots and cook for about 5 minutes stirring frequently. Lower heat to medium low and cook the shallots until nicely browned, about another 5 – 10 minutes. Once browned to your liking, remove from pan and set aside on a paper towel lined plate (if you leave them in the pan to cool, they may cook a bit more (possibly overcook) since the pan will still be hot). Sprinkle with a little salt and pepper if you like.
Dressing: Place the dressing ingredients in a small bowl, mix well and add more water as needed to thin. Set aside.
Serve: Add leafy greens to serving dish/plate, top with 1/2 of the roasted sweet potatoes and chickpeas along with 1/2 of the crispy shallots. Add a sprinkle of pepitas over top and drizzle with 1/2 of the dressing. Add a squeeze of the remaining lemon half over to if you like!
Serves 2
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days in a covered container.
Instructions
Prep: Quarter your tomatoes. Core and de-seed your bell pepper, cut into slices. 
Puree: Place all ingredients in food processor/blender and blend until a soup consistency. Taste for flavor adding extra ingredients to suit your taste.
Enjoy as is or place in the refrigerator to chill for 1 hour before eating.
Makes about 3 cups, serves 2 – 3
Serve: Place in individual bowls and top with a squeeze of lemon juice over top and some chopped chives, parsley or basil. Sliced or diced avocado is also excellent adding a little creaminess!
Instructions
Pasta: Cook your pasta of choice according to package directions. Set aside.
Vegetables: In a large flat bottom pan, heat oil on medium high, add mushrooms, zucchini, onion, garlic and spices, cook for about 8 – 10 minutes, or until mushrooms and zucchini are tender, stirring frequently. Add tomatoes and cook until heated through. Stir in spinach and let wilt. Taste for seasoning.
Assemble: Serve veggies over a bed of pasta with a good dusting of almond parmesan.
Serves 3
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 5- 6 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silpat.
Mix: In a medium size mixing bowl, combine the coconut, coconut milk, syrup, almonds, flour, vanilla and salt, mix well.
Scoop: Using a 2 or 3 tablespoon measuring spoon, scoop out rounded tablespoons, making sure to pack it well**. This last part is very important, or your macaroons may tend to fall apart. Place packed mounds on cookie sheet, about 1 inch apart.
Bake: Place cookie sheet in the oven and bake for 20 – 30 minutes (ovens vary and it depends on how big the mounds are), until golden, rotating sheet half through baking. Let cool completely.
Chocolate: Warm the chocolate on the stove over low heat, stirring frequently until melted. Alternately, you can melt the chocolate in the microwave, stopping to give a good stir every 30 seconds. Dip the bottoms of the macaroons into the melted chocolate. Place the cookies back on the lined baking sheet. Drizzle remaining chocolate on top using a spoon or pastry piping bag. Refrigerate for 7 – 10 minutes, or until set.
Makes about 24 two tablespoon cookies, 18 three tablespoon cookies, or 12 four tablespoon coconut macaroons.
Store: Keep macaroons covered or in an airtight container, will last for up to 4 – 5 days on the counter. To keep fresher longer, store in an airtight container in the refrigerator.
Instructions
Place all ingredients in blender and blend to desired consistency adding more milk or water as needed.
Serves 1
Instructions
Melt cacao: Place the raw cacao butter in a small saucepan and heat on the lowest setting. Keep an eye on it while you start putting the rest of the truffles together, swish it around every once in a while. At this low temperature it won’t burn and should melt completely within 5 minutes or so. Once melted, turn off heat and set aside until ready to use. Alternatively, melt in the microwave using 30 second intervals, stirring after each until melted.
Blend: Combine the cashews, dates, vanilla bean seeds, vanilla extract and salt into your food processor/blender and blend until completely combined and you have a smooth consistency. With equipment turned off, slowly add the melted cacao butter and blend again until combined. 
Add berries: Transfer truffle mixture into a small bowl, mix in the goji berries. 
Chill and roll: Place mixture in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes. Scoop out rounded tablespoons of dough and roll into balls with the palms of your hand, washing hands as needed in between balls. Roll in shaved cacao butter or shredded coconut.
Makes about 14 
Store: Store in an airtight container on the counter for up to one week, refrigerator for up to three weeks or so, or freeze for much longer storage.
Instructions
Place cashews, buckwheat groats and oats in food processor and blend until a medium to fine grind (doesn’t have to be perfect). The buckwheat may stay a bit chunky so if you’re looking for a smooth center use all oats. 
Add the coconut, lemon zest + juice, and dates, blend, stopping once or twice to scrape down the sides, until you have a doughy consistency. If you find your dough is a bit too dry try adding more fresh squeezed lemon juice, 1 tablespoon at a time. 
Chill dough for about 20 – 30 minutes (this will help stiffen the paste for rolling). Roll into 1 inch balls, then roll in coconut flakes.
Makes approx. 14 – 18 balls
Store: Keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 1 – 2 weeks. For longer storage, freeze for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Make flour: Combine almonds, coconut and cocoa powder in food processor/blender and process until almonds are a fairly fine consistency. Remove mixture and set aside.
Date paste: Add dates to the food processor/blender and process until dates become a paste. 
Combine: Add in the almond, coconut and cocoa powder mixture along with the remaining vanilla and salt. Pulse until just combined.
Pack in loaf pan: Line a loaf pan with plastic wrap, wax paper or parchment paper. Place mixture into loaf pan, press down firmly while smoothing out the surface. 
Chill: Place the brownies in the fridge for at least 30 minutes or so to harden a bit before cutting. 
Slice: Cut into 12 squares to make a 3 – 4 bite size brownie or cut into 24 squares for a 1 – 2 bite size brownies.
Finishing touch: Optionally, sprinkle the brownies with cacao powder or place a walnut on top of each piece for decoration.
Makes 12 – 24
Store: Keep in an airtight container in the fridge for up to two weeks. For longer storage, place in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Dressing: In a small bowl, mix the dressing ingredients together until dijon has emulsified. Set aside to let the flavors develop.
Assemble salad: In a medium/large mixing bowl, add beans and roughly mash leaving about 2/3 whole beans. Add in dressing to the beans and mix well. Add in the bell pepper, green beans, artichokes, red onion, olives, parsley, optional peperoncini and salt & pepper. Mix to combine.
Prep bread: Cut bread in half lengthwise. Remove some of the insides of each half making a trough for the filling (this will help keep the filling inside the sandwich when eating). Brush both halves with extra virgin olive oil.
Assemble pan bagnat: Layer your bottom half of bread with a good serving of the mixed salad. Add tomatoes across the top, then top with basil leaves and salt & pepper. Top with other slice of bread. (You can also vice versa this layer order starting with the basil and tomato on the bottom and salad on top.)
Cover with saran: Wrap sandwich tightly in saran wrap and press with a few heavy books/pots for at least an hour to overnight. If overnight, be sure to press in the refrigerator.
When ready to serve, slice in half or make as many slices as you like.
 Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Makes 2 sandwiches
Store: Store any leftover salad mixture covered in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. Also, sandwiches will last for 3 – 4 days, wrapped or in a covered container.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
After draining and rinsing your chickpeas, pat them dry with dish towel or paper towel. Remove any lose skins.
Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper or silpat. Place chickpeas in the center of the baking sheet, drizzle with oil and spices, mix well to coat. 
Arrange chickpeas in a single layer, place baking sheet in the oven, and bake for about 40-50 minutes, stirring every 15 minutes or so until chickpeas have a nice roasted look and are crispy. 
Let cool for 10 minutes before serving.
How To Store: Keep your chickpeas crunchy by storing them in a container that lets air flow through. When stored in an airtight container they will soften up and lose their crunchiness.
NOTES: 
For a spicy & sweet flavor, replace the oil with pure maple syrup!
RECOMMENDED EQUIPMENT: I love and use this parchment paper and silpat (affiliate links). For more of my favorite cooking tools, shop my kitchen essentials.
Instructions
Place ingredients, except for the pecans, in a food processor/high-speed blender and process, scraping down the sides as needed, until creamy and combined. Taste for sweetness, adding more maple syrup if needed. Stir in pecans. 
Place in an airtight container and keep in the freezer for at least 6 hours to harden. Let sit for about 10 minutes or so to soften before scooping into serving bowls.
Makes about 4 cups
Instructions
Place everything in blender, blend away until combined. 
Serve in frosted glasses with optional toppings or simply enjoy as is!
Serves 2
Instructions
Mash chickpeas: Drain and rinse chickpeas, place in medium size bowl and roughly mash about 3/4 of the chickpeas with the back of a fork or potato masher, until desired consistency. 
Assemble salad: Add the rest of the ingredients and mix well, adding any extra ingredients you like. Alternatively, you can use a food processor starting with the beans, pulse a few times, add remaining ingredients pulsing again a few times until desired consistency.
Serve chilled or at room temperature.
Ways to serve:
Serve on bread of choice, along with some leafy greens and the optional 1/4 sheet of nori. 
You can also serve on bibb or romaine lettuce like a wrap, instead of using bread, for a gluten-free meal like shown below. 
Try serving with sliced fresh scoopable veggies like cucumber, red bell peppers, zucchini, etc.
Lastly, pair with your favorite crackers.
Salad serves 3 generously. 
Store: Leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Stir before serving.
Instructions
Vegetable Noodles: Spiralize the zucchini and cucumber, set aside. You can also julienne by hand or use a julienne tool, but the spiralizer (affiliate link) is really fun and easy. I highly recommend having one if you make raw noodles often.
Prep veggies: Dice up your veggies, using as much as you like. 
Assemble: You can either mix everything together in a separate bowl and transfer to individual serving dishes, or you can serve and mix right in your serving dish. 
Top with sliced green onions, fresh herbs of choice, mineral salt & cracked pepper to taste. It’s extra Aaamazing topped with a dusting of Almond Parmesan!
Serves 2
Instructions
Flax egg (optional): If using a flax egg, place ingredients in small bowl and set aside for about 10 minutes to set. I have made pancakes many times without the need for an egg replacement, but you can think of it as added nutrition as flax meal is very good for you!
Vegan buttermilk: In a small bowl, add the milk and juice of 1/2 lemon, let rest for 5 – 10 minutes to curdle. This is optional, use plain plant milk if you prefer.
Preheat: Preheat griddle or pan to medium heat. If keeping pancakes warm, set oven to 200 degrees and place baking sheet in oven to warm.
Make batter: Combine the flour, oats, sugar, baking powder and salt in a large bowl. Add the vanilla and vegan milk to the dry mixture, and blend until just combined.
Scoop and cook: Using a 1/4 cup measuring cup, scoop and pour pancake mix onto a lightly greased griddle or skillet. Cook until bubbles form along the top and edges, about 2 to 3 minutes, bottom should be golden brown. Carefully flip and cook for another 2 minutes or so until golden brown underneath.
Keep warm: Transfer pancakes to warm baking sheet and place in oven until all pancakes are made.
Makes about 8 small pancakes.
Serve: Serve warm with blueberry compote and pure maple syrup.
Serves 2 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 7 days in a covered container. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for 2 – 3 months. Reheat in toaster oven or microwave.
Instructions
Potatoes: Place potatoes into a medium/large pot, fill pot with water, covering potatoes with at least 1 inch of water, add a generous pinch of salt. Bring to a boil, turn heat to medium-low, place lid slightly askew, and cook potatoes in gently boiling water for about 10 minutes. Potatoes should be al dente. Drain, and set aside and let cool a bit.
Dressing: In a small bowl, combine the tahini and water, mix well. Add the lemon juice, curry, hot sauce, onion powder and salt, mix well to combine. Add a tad more water as needed to create desired consistency. You don’t want the dressing to be too thick (I ended up using about 2 tablespoons extra). Use your best judgement. (If using vegan mayo as per the notes, simply combine everything at once and mix well.) Taste for seasoning. Makes about 3/4 cup.
Salad: In a large bowl, add potatoes, celery, carrots, green onions, chickpeas, and cilantro. Top with dressing, and gently toss to combine. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Serve: Serve chilled, at room temp, even warm is ok too. Top with chopped chives or sliced green onions. Garnish with more freshly chopped cilantro if you like.
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator in a covered container for up to 4 – 5 days.
Serves 6 – 8
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Make your flax egg in a small bowl by combining the flax-seed meal and water, mix well. Place in refrigerator for at 5 – 7 minutes to set. Should be thick and goupy when ready.
Prepare your muffin tin by lightly greasing it with oil. Use muffin liners if you prefer.
In a food processor/blender, add black beans, flax-eggs, cocoa powder, maple syrup, oil, baking powder, and vanilla. Blend until creamy stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. The batter should be about the consistency of pudding, not too thick, not too thin. Mix in chocolate chips.
Fill each cup about 1/4 – 1/3 full. Use any remaining batter to make sure all tins are equally filled. Place 1 teaspoon of chilled nut butter in the center of each cup. Using a toothpick, chopstick, or something pointy, swirl the nut butter into the chocolate.
Place in oven on middle rack and bake for 22 – 25 minutes. Let cool about 15 – 20 minutes. Using a butter knife, gently guide the knife around the outside of the muffin making sure it is away from the pan. Gently nudge under each brownie with the knife and lift removing from the tin.
Makes 12
Instructions
Nut butter maple syrup: First, mix your nut butter syrup. Combine ingredients in a small bowl and stir until smooth. For thinner syrup use more water. Set aside.
Preheat waffle maker to manufacturer’s instructions.
Waffle batter: In a medium size bowl, combine the flour, cocoa, sugar, baking powder, salt. Add nut milk, oil and vanilla, mix until combined.
Cook: Pour batter onto the center of waffle iron, close and cook about 3 – 4 minutes (or according to your waffle maker’s instructions). Gently remove waffles and serve right away. You can also keep waffles warm in a preheated oven at 200 degrees F., keep waffles on a cookie sheet until all waffles are ready.
Serve with the maple nut butter syrup and sliced bananas.
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days, or in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months. Reheat in the toaster oven.
Makes 4 – 5 regular or 2 Belgian waffles.
Instructions
In a small bowl, mix together tamari, sugar, garlic, red pepper flakes and juice of lime. Set aside. Mix before adding to the salad, we want the sugar to be as dissolved as possible.
Prepare your vegetables and fruit, place in medium sized bowl, pour the dressing and mix well. Serve in individual bowls with an extra squeeze of lime and nuts overtop.
Serves 2
Instructions
Dressing: Start by mixing the dressing in a small bowl, set aside letting the flavors develop. Add water as needed to thin, adding 1 tablespoon at a time.
Assemble: Add noodles and carrots to a large bowl, add dressing and mix until well coated. Be patient while mixing your kelp noodles, they are not as soft and pliable as regular noodles and will take moment to completely coat.
Serve in individual bowls, garnish with scallions and sesame seeds. Top with fresh lime juice. 
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 – 4 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Cashew cream: Soak the cashews in two cups cold water for 2+ hours or hot water for 5 minutes, drain well. Place cashews, lime juice, paprika, onion powder, salt and 1/2 cup water into blender/nutribullet and blend until smooth. Add additional water, 1 tablespoon at a time, to thin to desired consistency. Taste for flavor. Add more paprika to your liking, but keep in mind the color will change.
Enchilada sauce: Place the tomatillos, onion, garlic, jalapeno, and vegetable broth in a medium pot and bring to a boil. Lower to a simmer and cook until tender, about 15 minutes. Carefully, transfer to a food processor/blender, add the cilantro and/or parsley, and salt, process until smooth. Set aside. You may need to process your verde sauce in two batches if using a food processor. (Note: See Salsa Verde for step by step instructions) Makes about 6 cups.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Enchilada filling: Warm the olive oil in a skillet over medium heat, add the zucchini, carrots, corn, tomatoes, cumin, and salt, and saute until just tender, about 5 – 8 minutes.
Warm the tortillas: This helps to make them pliable. I prefer to warm mine over the stovetop so the edges get a little charred. Keep them stacked on each other with a towel over top to keep warm. Alternatively, wrap your corn tortillas in a dampened paper towel and microwave 45 seconds.
Assemble: Once everything is ready, start putting the enchilada’s together. Pour 1 cup of the sauce into the bottom of a 9 × 13 baking dish. Fill each tortilla with about 1/4 c of the vegetable mixture, a spoonful of black beans, roll up and place seam side down in the baking dish. Once filled, 2 – 3 cups of the remaining sauce on top of the enchiladas (use more if you like). Pour the cashew creama overtop. Cover with foil and bake 20 minutes. You may also like to leave the foil off for the last 10 minutes to let the exposed tortillas get a bit crispy. Add a finishing touch with fresh chopped cilantro overtop.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Tofu: Cut tofu into about 1/2 inch cubes, lay in between a dish towel or paper towels to soak up excess moisture. Gently press, careful to not press too hard if using silken and soft tofu.
Assemble Salad: In the bottom of a medium sized mixing bowl, add the mayonnaise, dijon, optional celery powder and turmeric, salt and pepper, mix well to combine. Add tofu and chives, gently fold into the mayo mix until well coated. If you like, feel free to mash the vegan egg salad, or mash just 1/2 of it.
Serve: Serve on your favorite bread with leafy greens. Great with crackers too!
Store: Leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Instructions
Quinoa: Rinse your quinoa in a fine mesh sieve under cool running water. In medium sauce pan combine quinoa with 1 3/4 cups water or vegetable broth, bring to a boil, simmer covered for 15 minutes. Once done, remove cover and let set for another 10 minutes to soak up the excess water. Fluff with a fork and set aside. (Or use this fail-proof Instant Pot Quinoa recipe)
Veggies: In wok or large skillet, heat oil over medium high, add vegetables and stir fry for 1 minute or so. Add tamari, garlic powder and other seasonings to taste. Cook for another 3 – 4 minutes stirring occasionally, use a lid if needed to help soften the vegetables a bit. 
Combine: Add in quinoa to the veggie mixture, turn heat to high, cook another 3 – 5 minutes stirring constantly adding a drizzle of oil if mixture seems too dry.
Serve warm. Top with a little sriracha or tamari if you like.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Wash apples well. Slice, core and dice apples and pears. 
In a large bowl (or right in your baking dish), combine apples, pears, lemon juice, sugar and cinnamon. Mix well and layer into a 9 x 9 baking dish.
In a medium size bowl, combine oats, almond meal, walnuts, maple syrup, coconut oil, vanilla and salt, mix well. Spread oat mixture evenly over the apples and sprinkle with a little cinnamon.
Bake for 35 – 40 minutes, or until apples and pears are fork tender. Let cool 5 – 10 minutes before serving.
Serves 6 generously
Instructions
Combine mango, banana, pineapple, and water/milk into a blender cup and blend until smooth. 
Pour into serving cup and top with chia seeds.
Makes about 2 1/2 cups. 
Serves 1 generously, or 2 smaller portions.
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a muffin tin with parchment liners or lightly grease with oil.
Mix: In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Add the orange juice and applesauce, mix well until just combined, don’t overmix. Fold in the cranberries and orange zest.
Fill Muffin Tin: Spoon the batter into the muffin tin holes, filling to the rim. Optionally, top with a few cranberries as desired and a sprinkle of sugar for a crunchy top.
Bake: Place on the center rack and bake for 30 minutes. Once done, let cool a few minutes and enjoy!
Store: Muffins will keep on the counter, loosely covered, for up to 3 days. For longer storage keep in the refrigerator for up to 6 days, or freeze for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Prep: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a muffin tin with muffin liners or lightly grease each hole with oil or butter.
Batter: In a large mixing bowl, cream together room temperature butter/oil and sugar. Add the vanilla and mashed banana, mix well. Add the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and pinch of salt to the wet ingredients and mix well to combine. Add the strawberries and gently fold them into the batter.
Scoop: Scoop the batter into each muffin hole, filling to at least 3/4 full. Top with a few diced strawberries (and/or banana slices).
Bake: Place in the oven on the center rack and bake for 20 – 25 minutes. Let cool a few minutes and transfer the muffins to a wire rack to cool.
Makes 10 – 12 muffins
Instructions
Press tofu: Drain tofu and place between a clean double folded kitchen towel, or paper napkins. Place a medium stainless steel pot on top to help press the tofu, releasing it of excess moisture. If using super-firm tofu, skip this step. Let set while making the sauce. If using bamboo skewers, at this time you may also like to soak them in water to keep them from burning on the ends.
Make Sauce: In a small saucepan, add coconut amino’s/tamari, pineapple juice, garlic, ginger and optional sweetener, bring to a boil, reduce heat and cook on low for 1 minutes. In a small bowl, mix together the cornstarch/tapioca powder with the water until smooth. Add the mixture to the teriyaki sauce and cook another minute, or until sauce thickens. Remove from heat, cover and set aside. If you like your teriyaki sauce on the sweeter side, add an extra tablespoon or two of your preferred sweetener. 
Prep tofu & veggies: Cut tofu into 3/4 – 1 inch cubes, place in a shallow baking dish and add about 1/3 – 1/2 of the sauce, gently toss to coat tofu, cover and let marinate for at least 30 minutes. Chop and prep the veggies. Thread tofu & veggies on the skewers, distributing evenly, in whatever order you like.
Grill: Turn on grill to medium high and coat with oil. Once grill is nice and hot, add skewers and cook, turning every so often, until tofu is slightly charred and vegetables are fork tender (or al dente if you prefer), about 8 minutes. Brush with a little sauce on the skewers while cooking if you like. Just be sure to save some for dipping later or adding over top of your grain.
Serve warm with grain of choice. I made a garlic cauliflower rice with chopped cilantro that was pretty darn good! This ginger cauliflower rice would be great too!
NOTES:
If you don’t have pineapple juice on hand, puree 1/2 cup of fresh pineapple and add enough water to equal 1/2 cup, mix well.
Instructions
Prepare the ingredients. Once you’ve sliced the avocados and removed the seeds, squeeze or rub a little lemon juice on the flesh to keep the browning at bay.
Place the cucumber, bell pepper, jalapeno, onion, and optional garlic and diced tomatoes in a small/medium mixing bowl, add just enough of the hummus or vegan mayo to bind.
Fill avocados and top with salt, pepper and squeeze of lemon. Adding a little chopped parsley will add even more color!
Instructions
Stovetop: (see notes for more cooking methods)
In a large 5qt. dutch oven or pot, heat water/olive oil over medium heat. Add carrots, celery, onions and garlic, saute for 4 minutes. Add the herbs and saute until fragrant, about 1 minute.
Add the green beans, tomatoes, potatoes, cabbage, and liquids, cover, bring to a boil. Remove lid, cabbage should be starting to shrink enough that you can give a good stir.  Cover, turn heat to low and simmer for 20 – 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Add more water if needed, and season with salt and pepper to taste. 
Serve: Ladle into soup bowls and top with chopped parsley. Pairs great with homemade vegan cornbread, vegan naan or artisan bread. 
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers will keep in the refrigerator for 4 – 5 days. store covered. To keep longer, store in the freezer in freezer safe containers for 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Rinse quinoa: In a fine mesh sieve rinse quinoa under cool running water.
Cook quinoa: In a large pot, combine water, quinoa and garlic powder, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove cover and let set 10 – 15 minutes. Fluff with a fork. Alternatively, use this quick and easy Instant Pot Quinoa.
Prep veggies: While the quinoa is cooking prep the veggies.
Assemble salad: Once quinoa is ready, add the chickpeas, carrots, cucumber, scallions, bell pepper, tomatoes, parsley, lemon juice and spices, mix well. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Serve warm, at room temperature, or chilled. I love serving mine with more lemon juice drizzled on top. Avocado slices would be a great addition too!
Serves 3 – 4
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly grease an 8 or 9-inch square baking pan.
Prepare a vegan buttermilk by mixing the almond milk with the lemon or vinegar and set aside.
Mix the chia seeds with the water, set aside. Let these set for 10 minutes.
Combine all dry ingredients in medium size bowl. Add milk, oil, chia seed mixture and combine making sure to break up any lumps of chia seeds. Pour batter into greased baking pan or dish. Bake for 25 minutes. Test by inserting a toothpick, if it comes out clean it’s ready.
Makes 9 slices
NOTES:
*All grinds of cornmeal work great here. I’ve tried them all and they all hold up well. For maximum texture use course grind.
You could also add in 1 cup canned, fresh or thawed corn to the mix.
For a spicy kick, add 1 diced jalapeno, leave a few seeds for extra heat.
Instructions
Mash the chickpeas. Roughly mash the chickpeas with the back of a strong fork, potato masher or pastry blender. The better you mash them, the better they will hold together.
Add remaining ingredients. To the chickpeas, add celery, red onion, sweet or dill pickles or relish, vegan mayo, dijon, garlic + onion powder, turmeric, and salt (shown above). Feel free to add a squeeze of lemon juice.
Mix to combine. As you can see above what it will look like when it’s mixed and ready to use.
If making sandwiches, layer a slice of bread with leafy greens, spread ‘egg’ salad on top of leafy greens and top with other half of sandwich bread, slice in half and enjoy!
Easy and delicious!
Salad serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 day.
Instructions
This soup can be prepared 3 different ways:
Instant Pot:
Set Instant Pot to SAUTE and add the 1 tablespoon olive oil or 1/4 cup water, onion, carrot, parsnip, and garlic, saute for 4 – 5 minutes (feel free to skip this step entirely adding everything to the pot and cooking).
Add split peas, herbs, bay leaves, and at least 5 cups of broth, and stir to combine.
Lock lid, set the valve to SEALING, and manually set to HIGH pressure for 15 minutes. Let natural release for 10 minutes. Remove bay leaves, stir in parsley, season to taste with salt and pepper.
Using an immersion blender, puree soup until desired consistency. Alternatively, use a blender or food processor (may take 2 – 3 batches).
Slow Cooker method:
Place ingredients into the bottom of your crock pot, starting with the split peas and finishing with the broth. Heat on low for 7 – 8 hours or high for 4 – 5 hours. Add parsley 30 minutes before done. Let soup cool slightly and remove bay leaves.
Using an immersion blender, puree soup until desired consistency. You can also puree using a food/processor or blender, may take two batches. Taste for seasoning, adding salt and pepper as needed.
Stove top method:
In large pot or stock pot, heat oil or water and saute onion, garlic, carrots and parsnips until onions are translucent, about 5 minutes. 
Add the split peas, herbs, bay leaves and vegetable broth.
Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to medium-low and simmer for 2 hours, stirring occasionally.
Stir in the parsley 30 minutes before soup is done.
Let soup cool slightly and remove bay leaves.
Using an immersion blender, puree soup until desired consistency. Alternatively, use a food processor or blender, may take two batches. Taste for seasoning, adding salt and pepper as needed.
Serve with whole grain or artisan bread. I just paired mine with some good seeded bread I had on hand and added some diced raw carrots on top which gave a nice freshness and crunch to the soup. Crumbled Coconut Bacon is also a nice topping!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. For longer storage, keep in the freezer for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
In a large bowl, add the flour, sugar, baking powder, pumpkin spice, baking soda, and salt, and mix to combine. Add the milk, oil, and pumpkin to the dry ingredients and mix just until moistened. Stir in oats and raisins. Fill each muffin space, just below the rim, with the pumpkin batter.
In a small bowl, combine the brown sugar, flour, and pumpkin pie spice, add oil/butter and cut into sugar mixture until crumbly. Sprinkle 1 heaping teaspoonful over top each muffin.
Bake in oven on middle rack for 20 – 25 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out clean.
Let cool 5 minutes before removing from pan to a wire rack. Serve warm.
Store covered loosely in a container on the counter for 4 days, or keep longer by storing in the refrigerator.
Makes 12 muffins
Instructions
Cook the butternut squash:
Oven: Preheat oven to 400, spread on baking sheet lined with parchment paper, add butternut squash, drizzle with a tiny bit of oil, toss well to coat, and cook in the oven for 30 minutes, or until fork tender.
Stovetop: In a pot add 2 – 3 cups of water and butternut squash, bring to a boil, reduce heat to medium low and cook at a gentle boil for 20 minutes.
Microwave: Place butternut squash in a microwave safe bowl, add 1/2 cup of water, place a small plate overtop to bowl, and heat for 5 minutes on high. Carefully lift plate and check if squash is ready, or cook for 1 – 2 more minutes, until fork tender.
Soak the cashews:
Quick soak: Cover cashews with hot, not boiling, water and let soak at 10 minutes.
Long soak: Cover cashews with cool water and let soak for 2 – 3 hours.
Cook the pasta: Cook the pasta according to package directions.
Make butternut squash cheese: In blender, add the cooked butternut squash, soaked cashews, nutritional yeast, garlic, onion powder, smoked paprika, lemon juice, 1/2 teaspoon salt and few grinds of fresh cracked pepper, add 1 1/2 cups of water and blend until creamy. Add more water as needed to thin to desired consistency. You don’t want it too thick, as it will thicken as it sets. The sauce just needs to cling so use your best judgement on how much extra water to add.
Assemble mac & cheese: Add the butternut squash cheese sauce to the pasta and stir to combine, heat over low to warm through if needed. Serve as is or bake as noted below.
Oven baked mac & cheese: Toss 1/2 cup of panko or bread crumbs with 1 – 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Sprinkle the mixture over top the mac and cheese, place in a preheated oven set to 350, uncovered, for 15 – 20 minutes, or until top turns golden. Or put it a few inches under the broiler until top is crispy, about 5minutes.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in the refrigerator for up to 4 – 5 days, in a covered container. It’s also freezer friendly and can be stored in freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a cookie sheet with silicone mat, parchment paper or leave ungreased.
Make the dough: In a large bowl, add the peanut butter and sugar and mix until creamy. Stir in the almond milk and vanilla. Next, add the flour, baking soda, and salt, mix to combine. The dough will be tough to stir, using your hands to mix it together will be easier.
Roll and flatten: Using a 1.5 tablespoon scooper, scoop out the dough and roll into balls, about 1 1/4 inch. Place the balls of dough about 2 1/2 inches apart on a baking sheet. Using the back of a fork, flatten in a crisscross pattern. Optionally, sprinkle with sugar or coarse salt.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 10 – 13 minutes (13 minutes will yield a crispier cookie that’s tender inside). Let cool a few minutes, transfer cookies to wire rack and repeat with remaining dough.
Makes 20 – 24 cookies.
Store: Cookies can be stored in an airtight container on the counter for 5 days. They do well loosely covered on the counter for 2 – 3 days as well. To keep longer, store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
To freeze: Let cookies cool completely, store in freezer safe container for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Crock-Pot: In a 5qt. or larger crockpot, add all the ingredients finishing with the vegetable broth, give a good stir, and cook on low for 5 – 8 hours or high for 2 – 4 hours. Add more broth/water as needed. Taste for seasoning before serving.
Stovetop: In a large dutch oven or pot, add ingredients finishing with the vegetable broth, give a good stir, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Add more broth/water as needed. Taste for seasoning before serving.
Instant Pot: Set Instant Pot to SAUTE and add the 1 tablespoon olive oil or ¼ cup water, onion, carrot, and celery, saute for 5 minutes, adding the spices and garlic powder in the last minute (feel free to skip this step entirely adding everything to the pot and cooking). Add the quinoa, beans, corn, zucchini, tomato paste, bay leaves, salt, pepper, and vegetable broth, stir to combine. Attach lid and turn to lock, set the valve to SEALING, and manually set to HIGH pressure for 3 minutes (it takes about 25 minutes to come to pressure). Let natural release for 10 minutes. Season to taste.
Serve with diced avocado and chopped cilantro. Pairs well with tortilla chips and a squeeze of lime.
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. This soup also freezes well for longer storage.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Puree: In a blender, mango (about 3 cups), and lime juice, puree until smooth. 
Combine: Mix the coconut milk and pure maple syrup.
Assemble: Pour the mango puree into the mold, about 1/3 full. Add a little granola, gently press down, sinking them a little into the mixture. Pour in a layer of coconut milk. Repeat with another layer of mango puree. Top each mold with a little granola. Tap the molds gently on the counter to remove any excess air bubbles, and place the stick or cut straw right in the center.
Freeze: Place in the freezer, towards the back if possible, for at least 6 hours.
Remove from molds: Let sit at room temp for a few moments. It should slide out easily or with a little pull. Alternately, place the popsicle maker in room temp water, letting it reach just under the brim of the pop maker. Do this just for a few seconds. Remove popsicles with a gentle pull.
Makes about 10 regular-sized popsicles 6 – 4.5 oz. popsicles.
Store: Store pops from the popsicle maker in an airtight container in the freezer. Place parchment or wax paper between the pops to keep them from sticking together. Pops made in dixie cups can easily be stored in their own container in the freezer (maybe in the door slot). They will last for about 3 – 4 weeks.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or Silpat, or use baking sheet as is, un-greased.
Cookie Dough: Combine flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl, set aside. Beat butter, coconut sugar and pure cane sugar in large mixing bowl until creamy. Add almond milk and vanilla extract, and beat until fluffy and creamy, about 1 – 2 minutes. Add 1/2 of the flour and mix to combine, add remaining flour and mix again. Stir in chocolate chips.
Scoop: Drop rounded 1 1/2 – 2 tablespoons full of cookie dough onto prepared baking sheet, keeping them about 2 inches apart.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 10 to 12 minutes (don’t overbake). Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes, move to wire racks to cool.
Makes 2 dozen cookies.
Storing:
Already Baked Cookies: Baked cookies will stay fresh stored in a covered container for 4 – 5 days. To keep longer, let them cool completely and store them in the freezer for up to 2 months in freezer safe containers.
Cookie Dough: Store cookie dough in an airtight container for up to 4 -5 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Curry Dressing: In a small bowl, combine vegan mayo with curry, garlic powder, and a generous pinch of salt. Blend until combined. Set aside. (If adding vinegar or maple syrup as per the notes below, add to the hummus at this time.)
Mash chickpeas (or leave them whole): In a medium mixing bowl, add chickpeas and roughly mash about 1/2 – 2/3 of the beans with the back of a sturdy fork or potato masher. Mashing is great when used as a sandwich filler, helping it to bind together.
Assemble: Add in the carrots, scallions, raisins, cashews, and pour dressing overtop along with a big squeeze of lemon, mix well to combine. Taste for flavor adding salt and pepper to taste.
Serve: Serve as is, with sliced red bell peppers as scoopers, on a bed of leafy greens, with crackers or made into a Chickpea Curry Salad Sandwich with bread of choice.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
Stovetop: In large pot or dutch oven, heat oil over medium heat. Add onions, cook until soft and edges browned, about 5 – 6 minutes. Add garlic, cook 1 minute more. Add the chili powder, cumin, oregano, garlic & onion powder, quinoa, beans, diced tomatoes, tomato paste, sweet potato, and broth/water, stir until combined. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover slightly ajar and cook for 30 – 40 minutes, stirring occasionally. Chili is ready when sweet potatoes are tender. Add additional water if chili is too thick for your liking.
Slow-Cooker: Add all the onion, garlic, diced tomatoes, beans, sweet potatoes, quinoa, tomato paste, chili powder, cumin, oregano, onion & garlic powder and broth/water to the bottom of the crockpot insert, stir until combined. Turn on high and cook for 4 – 6 hours, or turn on low and cook for 6 – 8 hours.
Serve with optional garnishes. You may also like to top it with this easy Cilantro Lime Cashew ‘Sour Cream’. On the side, try this Vegan Cornbread or Jalapeno Cornbread Muffins are delicious!
Serves 4 generously.
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. To keep longer, store in the freezer, in freezer safe containers, for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
Preparing Cabbage: Quarter cabbage and chop laterally into about 2 inch pieces. Place cabbage in an extra large bowl or pot. Combine salt with 2 cups of lukewarm water, stir to dissolve salt. Pour salt water over the cabbage and add remaining 4 cups, stir to mix. If you can, place a plate or circular baking dish of sorts on top to submerge the cabbage (I used a pie dish), place something with a good amount of weight on top to hold down if necessary (it’s not completely necessary but will help to evenly wilt the cabbage). Give cabbage a good mix every now and then. Let soak for 2 hours, up to 12 if you like. I found that 2 – 4 hours was enough and didn’t see much change between the two times.
Make your seasonings: While cabbage is soaking, combine apple, onion, ginger and garlic in food processor/blender and process until fairly smooth.
In a small bowl, mix the chili pepper with a small amount of water to make a wet paste. You can just as easily blend it with the apple/onion mixture adding a couple tablespoons of water as well.
Mix everything together: Once cabbage is ready, drain water, reserving 1/2 cup, and rinse well. Place cabbage back in large bowl, combine with the scallions, apple/onion mixture and chili paste. Mix well to coat all pieces. Either use your hands (with gloves on pref to protect from the chili pepper) or simply use wooden spoons to toss everything.
Packing: Place the kimchi in glass jars or containers with lid, pack down the best you can to close air pockets and leave about an inch at the top for air and gases. Top with remaining juices, add reserved brine if needed to cover vegetables.
Fermenting: Let kimchi sit at room temp (or in a cool place like a pantry or closet if weather is extremely warm) for 24 – 36 hours. After 24 hours, open kimchi and pack the mixture down with a spoon (the cabbage will have likely shrunk and you’ll have more liquids). You may notice it bubbling, this is perfectly normal as the kimchi is fermenting. As your kimchi ferments the flavors will develop, taste every 24 hours and place kimchi in the refrigerator once you’re happy with the taste and to slow fermentation, usually after 36 – 48 hours. It should be tangy, spicy and slightly sweet. After moving to the fridge, it’s best used within a month, maybe two.
Makes about 3 – 4 cups
Serve with rice, use in Kimchi Fried Rice or make Kimchi Tofu Scramble!
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Quinoa: In a medium size pan, add water/broth, quinoa, chili powder, cumin and salt, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove from heat, let cool about 5 – 7 minutes. Add in corn, black beans and pico de gallo, mix to combine. Add extra pico de gallo as you like, I used about 1 1/2 cups. Taste for seasoning adding salt or other spices to your liking. If you have an instant pot, this Instant Pot Quinoa is foolproof!
Prep: Slice bell peppers in half and remove seeds. 
Assemble: Place peppers on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or a silpat. Fill each half with quinoa. Place sheet in oven on middle rack and bake for 20 minutes, or until peppers are just al dente and nearly soft.
Serve with sliced avocado and a sprinkle of chopped cilantro. Would be great with a drizzle of this Sriracha Cashew Cheese Sauce or Cilantro-Lime ‘Sour Cream’ over top too!
Serves 6 – 1 bell pepper per person
Instructions
Stovetop: In a large 5 – 6 quart pot, heat oil/water over medium high heat, saute the onion for 5 – 7 minutes. Add the spices, saute for 1 minute more. Add the butternut squash, bell peppers, beans, tomatoes and vegetable broth and optional cocoa, bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover, and simmer for about 45 minutes. Will be done when the butternut squash is tender. Taste for flavor. Chili will thick upon cooling.
Slow Cooker: Place ingredients into your slow-cooker, finishing with the vegetable broth and give a good stir. Cover and cook on low for 6 – 8 hours, or on high for 3 – 4 hours. Taste, and season with additional salt and pepper or seasonings as needed.
Serve with garnish of choice. Pairs great with my favorite vegan cornbread or jalapeno cornbread muffins!
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Keep leftovers stored in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 5 days. For longer storage, store in the freezer in freezer safe containers for up to 2 – 3 months.
Instructions
In a large serving bowl, or individual serving bowls, layer the romaine, top with chickpeas, cucumber, olives, tomatoes, and red onion, and vegan feta. Drizzle dressing overtop and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Serve with optional sliced avocado and chopped parsley.
Serves 2 – 4
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Soak the cashews. I like to soak my cashews covered in hot water for 5 minutes. This helps them soften up nicely and blend into pure creamy perfect. To help with digestion, it’s recommended to soak them for up to 2 hours in cool water. Soaking can be optional.
Blend the ingredients. Add the cashews, 1/2 cup water, garlic, nutritional yeast, cumin, chili powder, and salt to the blender cup. Blend until creamy, about 1 – 2 minutes, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Add more water as needed. Taste for flavor.
Warm it up (optional). For a warm vegan queso, pour queso dip into an oven safe bowl, cover with tin foil, and place in a preheated oven set to 350 degrees F. for 10 – 15 minutes. Alternatively, warm in the microwave, uncovered, using 30 second intervals, stirring after each until warmed through.
Serve: Serve warm or at room temperature with your favorite tortilla chips or veggie sticks. For color and texture top with sliced or diced, jalapeno, red bell pepper, tomatoes, green onions and/or cilantro.
Makes about 1 1/4 cups
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 6 – 7 days, in a covered container. Give a good stir before serving.
Instructions
Place cashews, water, garlic, dijon, and juice of lemon in a blender and blend until creamy, about 45 seconds. Taste for flavor adding a little more of desired ingredients to taste.
Serve at room temperature.
Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a week.
Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
NOTES: 
Adjust the garlic to your taste. For a mild garlic flavor, 2 will do. If you love your garlic, use more.
To make this completely raw, use 3/4 – 1 teaspoon mustard powder in place of dijon.
For thinner aioli, add extra water, 1 – 2 tablespoons, at a time until desired consistency.
If you don’t care for dijon mustard, omit it all together. You can also start with 1 teaspoon, adding a little extra to taste.
For this task, I used a NutriBullet which does a great job blending cashews into pure creaminess. Plus, you can keep your aioli in the cup it was blended in, easily storing leftovers in the refrigerator.
Soaking cashews: If you prefer to soak your cashews, 2 hours before preparing the aioli, place cashews in a cup/bowl filled with water, covering cashews about 1 inch. Let set for 2 hours. For a quick soak, place cashews in a bowl of warm water for 1 hour, or in near boiling water for 15 minutes. Drain and rinse well before blending. Use 2/3 cup of water instead of 3/4 cup, as the cashews will have plumped up and you may not need as much. Add more water, 1 tablespoon at a time as needed to thin.
There are benefits to soaking your cashews, although I am sometimes lazy about it. It does help remove certain enzymes that may inhibit vitamin and mineral absorption, and also may help with digestion.
Instructions
FALAFELS
Chickpeas: If using dried chickpeas, place beans in a large pot and cover with at least two inches of water (they will puff up), let soak overnight or at least 12 hours. There is no need to cook them as they will soften enough to use in the recipe. If using canned chickpeas, be sure to drain and rinse well by running the beans under cool running water. If using freshly cooked chickpeas, you will need about 1 1/ 2 cups.
Preheat oven to 400. Coat your cast iron skillet or cookie sheet with olive oil.
Falafel mix: In a food processor/blender, combine all the ingredients for the falafel. Blend until blended and fairly smooth but not pureed, scraping down the sides as needed. 
Form falafels into whatever size you like:
Medium (shown above): Scoop 4 tablespoons per patty will yield approx. 6 patties.
Small: Scoop 1 heaping tablespoon per patty will yield approx. 9.
Mini nuggets: Scoop 1 heaping teaspoon will yield approx. 16.
Bake: Place on greased skillet/cookie sheet and bake for 10 minutes. Flip and bake for 15 minutes. Total cooking time 25 minutes. If you find that your falafels are not as browned as you like, place them under the broiler for a minute or two. Just be sure to keep an eye on them so they don’t burn.
Store: Leftover falafels can be kept in an airtight container for 5 days. They will soften overnight. To warm them up and return crispness to the outside, place under broiler or in a toaster oven at a high temp for a minute or two while keeping an eye on them so they don’t burn.
DRESSING
While the patties are in the oven make your falafel dressing of choice.
Lemon Tahini Dressing: In a small bowl, combine all ingredients and mix until well combined. Taste for seasoning and add more water as needed 1 tablespoon at a time or add more lemon juice. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to five days.
OR, for something different and refreshing…
Avocado-Cucumber Dressing: In a food processor/blender, combine all the ingredients except for the water. Blend until smooth. Taste for seasoning. Add water a tablespoon or two at a time until desired consistency. Best chilled in the refrigerator before serving. Leftovers will hold up a day or two in a sealed container in the refrigerator. It may last a little longer but it’s gone by day two around my house.
ASSEMBLE SALAD
Once patties are ready, make your salad by layering leafy greens into individual bowls and top with falafels, cucumber, tomatoes, carrots, onion, and choice of dressing.
Instructions
Cook noodles as directed on package, set aside.
While you’re waiting for the water to boil, begin slicing up your veggies.
In a large skillet, heat oil over medium heat, add onion (not the scallions) and cook about 4 minutes or until onions soften. Add mushrooms and cook another 3 minutes. Add the zucchini, scallions, bean sprouts, basil, water/broth, tamari, maple syrup, garlic powder and red pepper flakes, cook another 3 – 4 minutes, or until zucchini has just softened. A cover will help cook your vegetables faster. Remove from heat, add noodles to the pan and toss together. You can also keep the noodles and vegetable mixture separate if you like and mix in your bowl.
Serve in individual bowls with a little of the juice from the bottom of the wok/pan. Top with toasted sesame seeds (and more red pepper flakes if you like). A little sriracha wouldn’t hurt either!
Serves 3
NOTES:
Add some cubed firm or extra-firm tofu for added protein.
Instructions
Quinoa: In a medium saucepan, add quinoa and water/vegetable broth. Bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Once done, remove lid and let rest for 10 minutes, fluff with fork.
Vinaigrette: Add all the ingredients to a small/personal food processor and blend until smooth and creamy. Alternately, you can chop the basil really well and mince the garlic, then simply mix all the ingredients together in a small container – or add the basil to the salad and mix the remaining vinaigrette ingredients together. Set aside to let the flavors come together. Taste again before mixing to adjust flavor. Keep in the refrigerator if making a day or two in advance.
Prep: If corn has husks, either remove them or pull away and tie (as in the pics above), and remove all the silk threads from underneath. Cut peaches along the seam all the way around and twist halves off the pit. Cut zucchini in half lengthwise. If you like add a light of oil to the cut side of the peaches and zucchini before placing on the grill, I didn’t do this since I oiled the grill directly.
Grill: Prep your grill and add a light coat of oil. Start with the corn first, it will take the longest, about 10 minutes or so depending on your grill. Then add the zucchini and peaches cut side down. The last two should grill up fairly quickly, about 3 – 5 minutes. I leave mine al dente.
Shuck & slice: Once done, remove the corn off the cob. Using a large, shallow, rimmed baking dish or pie dish, hold the corn by its top horizontally in the center, use a knife to gently but firmly cut the corn from the cob from top to bottom. Give the corn a 90 turn and repeat, until all the corn is removed. Slice zucchini into 1/4 – 1/2 inch slices. Slice peaches into 1/8 – 1/4 inch slices. Slice tomatoes in half. Slice avocado in half, twist to separate halves, remove seed and slice thinly.
Combine: Add quinoa to a large mixing bowl, along with the peaches, corn, zucchini, tomatoes, chickpeas, avocado and pepitas, toss to combine. Add the dressing and mix again. Add mineral salt & fresh cracked pepper to taste.
Serve at room temperature or chilled. Enjoy as is or with a handful of arugula (this is especially good!).
Serves 4 generously
NOTES:
Change up the chickpeas with edamame.
Make this oil-free by simply squeezing a lemon or two over top the salad, just be sure to add plenty of chopped basil. A little mint would be great too.
Use farro or wheat berries in place of quinoa for variety.
I wanted to add sliced, or diced, red onion and forgot, feel free to add in about 1/2 red onion.
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a cookie sheet with silicone mat, parchment paper or leave ungreased.
Make the dough: In a large bowl, add the peanut butter and sugar and mix until creamy. Stir in the almond milk and vanilla. Next, add the flour, baking soda, and salt, mix to combine. The dough will be tough to stir, using your hands to mix it together will be easier.
Roll and flatten: Using a 1.5 tablespoon scooper, scoop out the dough and roll into balls, about 1 1/4 inch. Place the balls of dough about 2 1/2 inches apart on a baking sheet. Using the back of a fork, flatten in a crisscross pattern. Optionally, sprinkle with sugar or coarse salt.
Bake: Place in the oven and bake for 10 – 13 minutes (13 minutes will yield a crispier cookie that’s tender inside). Let cool a few minutes, transfer cookies to wire rack and repeat with remaining dough.
Makes 20 – 24 cookies.
Store: Cookies can be stored in an airtight container on the counter for 5 days. They do well loosely covered on the counter for 2 – 3 days as well. To keep longer, store in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
To freeze: Let cookies cool completely, store in freezer safe container for up to 2 months.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 400 degrees.
Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper, or use a silpat, place thawed pastry puff on top. Cover the pastry puff with a light kitchen towel so it doesn’t dry out, set aside away from the oven heat.
Prepare your glaze by combining all three ingredients in a small bowl. Stir and stir until the cinnamon finally incorporates into the syrup. Set aside.
Slice pears in half lengthwise, core and slice in 1/8 – 1/4 inch slices widthwise. Doesn’t have to be exact, in the middle would be great. I did it by hand and some were thinner and some were thicker. Layer your tart leaving about 1/4 inch along the edges.
Using a silicon brush, lightly add the glaze to the pears and a light coat on the edges as well.
Bake for 40 – 50 minutes, turning half way after 20 minutes. Once done, feel free to make a little extra glaze and brush over top to give it a little glisten. Sprinkle with slivered almonds. Serve warm.
Serves 6
Instructions
Place banana chunks, 1 cup cherries, and a splash of milk into blender/food processor and blend until just combined, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed.  Add another splash of milk to help the mixture move (especially if using a blender).
Add in chocolate and remaining 1/2 cup cherries, pulse until just combined. 
Serve immediately as a soft serve or freeze for later and serve as hard ice cream. To freeze, place the ice cream into a sealed container and freeze for at least six hours. It will last for up to 2 months. Before serving, let sit at room temp for a few minutes, scoop and serve.
Makes about 2 cups.
Serves 4 small portions or 2 generously.
Instructions
Vegetables: Prepare vegetables and combine all ingredients in large size bowl. Place 1/2 or so of the mix into a food processor and blend until pureed. Return puree to diced vegetables and toss well.
Nut Meat: Place all ingredients into food processor and pulse until crumbly. You don’t want to over blend or it will be a paste.
Serve: Place vegetable chili in bowls and top with nut meat adding any additional garnishes you like.
Serves 2 generously, or 4 smaller portions.
This would be great with sliced avocado, and a dollop of raw sour Cream or this flavorful Lime Cilantro Cashew ‘Sour Cream’, adding the perfect final touch!
Store: Keep leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 5 – 6 days. Nut meat will last up to 2 – 3 days, depending on the freshness of the mushrooms. Before eating let sit at room temp as it tastes best this way.
Enjoy the freshness!
Instructions
Lay a nori sheet on the bamboo sushi mat.
Start by spreading your miso paste along the farthest edge of the nori sheet. Add some of the hemp hearts to the miso paste, gently press so the seeds stay put. 
Next, on the end closest to you, add some avocado, cucumber, carrots, red pepper, radish, mushrooms and sprouts. 
Finally, roll and slice.
Makes 3 rolls
Instructions
Soak dal: Rinse Chana dal and remove any pebbles or unsightly peas. In a large pot, soak the dal in about 4 cups of room temperature water for 2 hours or hot water for 1 hour. Drain water. If using yellow split peas, skip this step. 
Cook dal + potato: In a large dutch oven or pot, place soaked Chana dal, sweet potato, and bay leaves, cover with 2 inches of water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for about 20 minutes, until dal and sweet potatoes are tender. Place cooked peas and potatoes in a colander, rinse gently and quickly with warm water, set aside. Leave bay leaves with the mix. Don’t worry about getting every pea out of the pot.
Saute veggies: In same pot, heat oil/water over medium heat, add bell peppers, jalapeno, onion, and thyme, saute for 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Remove sauteed vegetables to the colander with the chana dal and potatoes, set aside. Don’t worry about getting every vegetable out of the pot.
Make soup base: In same pot, over medium heat, add flour and 1/3 cup of milk, whisk well until it thickens and lumps are barely visible, stirring continuously, slowly add in the remaining amount of liquids, stirring continuously, continue to heat over medium-low, lumps with dissolve completely as the liquid warms up. Careful to not boil or milk will begin to curdle. Continue to stir and heat until liquids begin to thicken about 7 –  10 minutes.
Simmer: Add in the Chana dal and vegetable mixture, heat over low until everything has warmed, about 10 minutes. Taste for seasoning, add salt as needed, remove bay leaves, and discard.
Serve with crusty bread or oyster crackers and a sprinkle of parsley over top.
Serves 4 – 6
Instructions
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment or silicon mat.
Prep and roast the squash: Wash and dry squash. Slice each squash in half lengthwise, remove seeds. The seeds should come out easily by scraping the inside of the squash with a spoon. Lightly brush the inside of each squash with a little oil or maple syrup. Sprinkle with a bit of mineral salt and thyme. Place on baking sheet cut side up. Bake in oven for 35 – 40 minutes, or until squash is tender and pierces easily with a fork.
Quinoa Stuffing: In a medium pot, add quinoa and water, bring to a boil, cover, reduce heat to low and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove lid, fluff a fork and let set 10 minutes. Add pistachios, cranberries, shallots, salt, pepper and any other optional ingredients. Toss well to combine.
Assemble: Scoop quinoa into squash halves, place back in the oven for 10 minutes to warm if needed, and serve.
Serves 6
Store: Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container in fridge for up to 4 – 5 days.
Instructions
Saute: In a large pot, heat oil or water over medium heat, add the onion, garlic, ginger, and chili peppers and saute for 5 minutes stirring frequently.
Boil and simmer: Add the sweet potatoes, tomatoes, spices and liquids, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 15 minutes, or until sweet potatoes are fork tender.
Add final ingredients: Turn off heat and stir in the peanut butter, and finish with the spinach and lemon juice. Soup will thicken upon cooling. Season with salt & pepper to taste.
Serves 4 – 6
Serve in individual bowls with optional grain of choice (this cilantro lime rice would be great) and garnish with cilantro and peanuts. Soup pairs wonderfully with naan bread for soaking and dipping!
Store: Leftovers will keep for 5 days in a covered container in the refrigerator. To store longer, keep in the freezer for up to 2 months in freezer friendly containers or baggies.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
Flax mixture: In a small bowl, mix the flaxseed meal and water. Set aside for 10 minutes, stirring every so often. The mixture will be gooey when ready. This is the binder for the mixture (and it includes healthy omega’s!).
Almond flour: You can buy almond flour or make it close enough at home. In a blender/food processor, grind 1 and 1/4 cup raw almonds into a fine powder or meal type consistency – it doesn’t have to be perfect, but the finer, the better.
Make the dough: In a medium-size bowl, combine the almond flour, flax mixture, salt, and optional seasonings.
Shape and roll: Form the dough into a ball and place it on a flat surface lined with parchment paper. Cover with another piece of parchment paper, press down with your hand to flatten and finish rolling with a pin to about 1/8 inch thick. The thinner, the better and more crispy the crackers will be. Remove top layer of paper.
Cut into squares: Using a pizza cutter or knife, cut squares or diagonals into whatever size you like. Using a toothpick or small fork, poke the center of each cracker to allow steam to escape during baking (so they don’t puff up). Top with a little coarse sea salt.
Bake: Line the baking sheet with the leftover parchment paper. Carefully transfer each cracker to the baking sheet and bake for 10 – 15 minutes. After the first 10 minutes, keep an eye on them, removing the ones around the edges that are done. They will ever so slightly darken and turn golden, you don’t want it too dark, or it may have a burnt flavor. When done, let cool.
Yields 50 – 1 inch – crackers, but your results may vary depending on how you cut them.
Store: Crackers can be stored in an airtight container for up to 7 days on the counter or in the pantry. For longer storage, keep in the refrigerator for up to 2 weeks.
Instructions
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Pasta: Bring a large pot of water to a boil, cook your noodles and set aside.
Bread Crumbs: While waiting for the water to boil, start with your bread topping first. I toasted two pieces of bread we had on hand really well and processed them in the food processor until crumbly, a high speed blender will work too. Place the crumbs in a small bowl, drizzle with olive oil and a twist or two of the salt grinder, mix well and set aside. Quickly rinse the processor/blender bowl and move on to the cheese sauce.
Cheese sauce: In food processor/blender, combine all of the cheese sauce ingredients and blend until creamy. Add more water, a tablespoon or so at a time, and blend again. Taste for flavor adding anything extra to taste – salt, nutritional yeast, garlic.
Assemble: Once pasta is cooked and drained. Add pasta back to the pot it was cooked in, add the cheese sauce and combine well (you can also mix it together in the baking dish). In baking dish, pour mac & cheese and top with bread crumbs. 
Bake: Place in oven for 20 – 25 minutes, check after 15 minutes if crumbs are darkening too much for your liking, cover with foil. If your oven doesn’t brown the top very much (like mine didn’t), you can put it under the broiler for 5 minutes or so. Just keep an on it so the top doesn’t burn.
When done, let cool for about 10 minutes and serve. The sauce will thicken upon standing.
Serves 8
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days.
Instructions
DIY tortilla strips: Preheat oven or toaster oven to 375 degrees F. Brush 2 corn tortillas lightly with olive oil and sprinkle with a chili powder mix & mineral salt. Cut into thin strips, place on baking sheet in a single layer, bake in oven or toaster oven, rotating once, for about 10 – 12 minutes, until crisp and golden.
Dressing: Combine the ingredients for the cilantro-lime dressing in a small blender or food processor (I used the Nutri-bullet). Blend until creamy, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed every now and then, add extra water a little at a time as needed to thin. Taste for flavor, adding anything extra. Pinch more salt? Pinch more cumin or squeeze of lime? Blend well.
Salad: Assemble your salad by adding the romaine lettuce to your serving dish, top with corn, red onion, chickpeas, tomatoes, cilantro. Lastly, add pepitas (pumpkin seeds), tortilla strips, a good drizzle of the dressing, and a squeeze of lime over the top.
Serves 2 – 3
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days, in a covered container.
Instructions
Pasta: Cook the noodles according to package directions until al dente. Drain, reserving 1/2 cup of pasta water.
Stroganoff: Heat the butter in a medium pot over medium-high heat, add onion and saute until golden, about 5 minutes. Add the garlic and mushrooms, cook another 5 minutes, or until mushrooms begin to sweat down a bit. Add the flour, stirring to fully incorporate so there are no white streaks, cook for 1 minute. Stir in the wine and broth, bring to a gentle boil, reduce heat to medium, cook another 5 minutes or until the sauce has slightly thickened. Stir in the sour cream and parsley. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
Assemble: Add the pasta to the mushroom sauce, toss to combine. Add in a little pasta water as needed to loosen the sauce. Alternatively, add pasta to individual bowls and spoon the creamy sauce overtop.
Serves 4 – 6
Store: Leftovers can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 – 6 days. Freeze for up to 2 – 3 months. Let thaw before reheating.
